

===== Page 1 =====
43
Assessing the Alignment between the Information Needs of
Developers and the Documentation of Programming
Languages: A Case Study on Rust
FILIPE ROSEIRO COGO,Centre for Software Excellence, Huawei, Canada
XIN XIA,Software Engineering Application Technology Lab, Huawei, China
AHMED E. HASSAN,School of Computing, Queen’s University, Canada
Programminglanguagedocumentationreferstothesetoftechnicaldocumentsthatprovideapplicationdevel-
operswithadescriptionofthehigh-levelconceptsofalanguage(e.g.,manuals,tutorials,andAPIreferences).
Such documentation is essential to support application developers in effectively using a programming lan-
guage. One of the challenges faced by documenters (i.e., personnel that design and produce documentation
for a programming language) is to ensure that documentation has relevant information that aligns with the
concreteneedsofdevelopers,definedasthemissingknowledgethatdevelopersacquireviavoluntarysearch.
In this article, we present an automated approach to support documenters in evaluating the differences and
similarities between the concrete information need of developers and the current state of documentation
(a problem that we refer to as the topical alignment of a programming language documentation). Our ap-
proach leverages semi-supervised topic modelling that uses domain knowledge to guide the derivation of
topics. We initially train a baseline topic model from a set ofRust-related Q&A posts. We then use this
baselinemodeltodeterminethedistributionoftopicprobabilitiesofeachdocumentoftheofficial Rustdocu-
mentation.Afterwards,weassessthesimilaritiesanddifferencesbetweenthetopicsoftheQ&Apostsandthe
official documentation. Our results show a relatively high level of topical alignment inRust documentation.
Still,informationaboutspecifictopicsisscarceinboththeQ&Awebsitesandthedocumentation,particularly
related topics with programming niches such as network, game, and database development. For other topics
(e.g., related topics with language features such as structs, patterns and matchings, and foreign function in-
terface), information is only available on Q&A websites while lacking in the official documentation. Finally,
we discuss implications for programming language documenters, particularly how to leverage our approach
to prioritize topics that should be added to the documentation.
CCS Concepts: •Software and its engineering→ Software creation and management;
Additional Key Words and Phrases: Documentation, programming languages, Rust, Q&A websites, Stack
Overflow, RustForum, topic models, domain knowledge
ACM Reference format:
FilipeRoseiroCogo,XinXia,andAhmedE.Hassan.2023.AssessingtheAlignmentbetweentheInformation
NeedsofDevelopersandtheDocumentationofProgrammingLanguages:ACaseStudyonRust. ACM Trans.
Softw. Eng. Methodol.32, 2, Article 43 (March 2023), 48 pages.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3546945
Authors’addresses:F.R.Cogo,CentreforSoftwareExcellence,Huawei,Canada;X.Xia,SoftwareEngineeringApplication
Technology Lab, Huawei, China; A. E. Hassan, School of Computing, Queen’s University, Canada.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee
provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and
the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than ACM must be honored.
Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires
prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions frompermissions@acm.org.
© 2023 Association for Computing Machinery.
1049-331X/2023/03-ART43 $15.00
https://doi.org/10.1145/3546945
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 2 =====
43:2 F. R. Cogo et al.
1 INTRODUCTION
Programming language documentationis the set of technical documents that describe high-level
concepts of a programming language and allow application developers to learn and use the lan-
guage in an effective way [99]. This documentation is officially maintained and distributed and
typicallyincludesadescriptionofthelanguageconcepts,referencemanuals,usageexamples,and
tooling tutorials. Examples of such a documentation include theJava Documentation,1 the Rust
Documentation,2 and theGo Documentation,3 among others. Without a sufficient set of docu-
ments, both novice and experienced developers lack the necessary information about using a pro-
gramming language to address their needs and improve their knowledge.
The documentation of a programming language needs to be periodically updated and to follow
along with the language evolution. To produce informative documents and to plan the allocation
of resources to documentation-related activities, documenters (i.e., personnel devoted to writing
documentation)shouldbeabletoidentifythemostimportantandpracticaltopicsthatdevelopers
need and to compare such topics against the current version of the documentation [82]. Docu-
menters should also be able to identify topics of the documentation that are not well covered and
prioritize topics that should be improved. Similarly, documenters should be able to identify suffi-
cientlydocumentedtopics(inrelationtodevelopers’informationneeds)toavoidredundanciesin
the maintained documentation. We define concrete information needs as the missing knowledge
that is acquired via the active process of asking other developers. We refer totopical alignmentof
thedocumentationofaprogramminglanguage asthedifferencebetweenthetopicsthatmakeup
the concrete information needs of developers and the covered topics by the current state of the
documentation. Maximizing the topical alignment of the produced documentation is not a trivial
task, as documenters are not always aware of the concrete information needs of developers.
Complete and accurate documentation is of fundamental importance in providing developers
with information about the usage of a programming language. Despite its importance, assessing
the topical alignment of the documentation of a programming language is an open research prob-
lem [82, 92]. Typically, communities and sponsors around different programming languages em-
ploy expensive and time-consuming survey methods to assess the topical alignment of their doc-
umentation [1,4,9]. In this article, we describe a machine learning–based approach to tackle this
important problem. Although our approach is not supposed to replace surveys that are typically
conducted, it can be leveraged by programming language documenters to assist in the design
and complement the results of such surveys. The main idea behind our approach is to build two
topic models—one that represents the information needs of developers and another one that rep-
resents the covered topics by the current documentation of the language—and then assess the
similarity and dissimilarities between the topics of the two models. To build such models, we use
semi-supervised topic modelling [64] that leverages domain knowledge, represented by a set of
associated keywords with each topic (a.k.a.anchor words), to guide the derivation of latent topics
from textual information [49,51, 64,89].
We demonstrate the practical application of our approach by empirically assessing the topical
alignmentofthe Rustofficialdocumentation. Rustisaprogramminglanguagethatissteadilygain-
ing the attention of software engineering practitioners, being voted as the “most loved” language
by developers for over six consecutive years [10]. Nonetheless, when participants of the annual
Rust Survey [7] are asked about what theRustcommunity can do to improveRust’s adoption, re-
spondentsfrequentlyanswerthattraininganddocumentationaretwoessentialefforts.Therefore,
1https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/.
2https://www.rust-lang.org/learn.
3https://golang.org/doc/.
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 3 =====
Assessing the Alignment between the Information Needs of Developers 43:3
beyond demonstrating the application of our approach, an empirical study of the topical align-
ment ofRust documentation provides practical recommendations to an important community of
documenters.
For our case study, we encode theRust domain knowledge into 47 differentknowledge units
(KUs)thatareinducedfromamanualcategorizationofthelanguage’sofficialdocumentation[ 22].
A KU represents a set of related concepts that a skilledRust developer must know. Each KU is
associatedwithonetopicthatoursemi-supervisedtopicmodelderives.EachKUisalsoassociated
with a set of anchor words (e.g., the “primitive type” KU is associated with anchor words such as
“tuple” and “array”) that are given as input to the semi-supervised topic models. We then build a
concretemodel fromthedataoftwopopular Question&Answer(Q&A) websites[54,66,91,95]
where developers actively seek for information aboutRust [58, 93], namely,Stack Overflowand
RustForum (theofficiallymaintainedQ&Awebsitebythe Rustcommunity).Inaddition,webuild
a documentation modelfrom the data of the officialRust documentation.
Forboththeconcreteanddocumentationmodels,weanalyzethe prevalenceofeachKU (i.e.,the
numberofdocumentsinwhichaKUoccurs).Basedontheprevalences,weidentifythe convergent
KUs (i.e., the KUs that are highly prevalent in both the concrete and documentation models), the
divergentKUs (i.e.,theKUsthatarehighlyprevalentintheconcretemodelbutnotinthedocumen-
tationmodel),andthe absentKUs (i.e.,KUswithalowprevalenceinbothmodels).Wealsoanalyze
theawarenessofeachKU (i.e.,thenumberofanswersthateachKUreceivesintheQ&Apoststhat
are associated with the KU). Based on these analyses, we answer three research questions (RQs):
(RQ1) How the prevalence of KUs differs between the concrete information needs of de-
velopers and theRustdocumentation?
In general, there is a strong agreement between the concrete information needs of developers and the
contentsoftheofficial Rustdocumentation.Still,specificKUsthatareassociatedwithmanyQ&Aposts
havealowcoveragebythe Rustdocumentation.WealsoobservedKUsthatareseldomlydiscussedin
Q&A websites and also have a low coverage by the official documentation.
(RQ2) How many KUs are absent, divergent, or convergent in theRustdocumentation?
We identified 10 absent, 6 divergent, and 10 convergent KUs in terms of the frequency of occurrence,
halfoftheabsentKUscategorizedasaKUforprogrammingniches(e.g.,network,game,anddatabase
development).Inaddition,one-thirdoftheKUsthatarecategorizedaslanguagefeatures(e.g.,structs,
patterns and matchings, and foreign function interface) are divergent.
(RQ3) Do convergent, divergent, and absent KUs exhibit different awareness in Q&A
websites?
Ingeneral,absentKUshavehigherranksofattention(i.e.,numberofanswersinQ&Aposts)andlower
ranks of agreement (i.e., the odds of having an accepted answer), suggesting KUs that should be pri-
oritizedbydocumenters(e.g.,loggingandcommandlineargumentsparsing).Conversely,convergent
KUs have lower ranks of attention and higher ranks of agreement.
The main contributions of our article are:
•Methodological: We propose an approach to assess the topical alignment of the documenta-
tion of a programming language using semi-supervised topic models of the posts of Q&A
websites and a language’s documentation. To foster further research in the area of topical
alignmentofprogramminglanguages,wealsoprovidesupplementarymaterialthatcontains
our data and trained model [30].
•Technical: We perform an empirical study about the topical alignment of theRust docu-
mentation, followed by a discussion of the implications of our findings for documenters
of programming languages. In our empirical study, we develop a set of metrics and
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 4 =====
43:4 F. R. Cogo et al.
visualizations to assess the topical alignment of the documentation of a programming lan-
guage.Ourempiricalstudyalsoidentifiestopicsthatlackcoveragefromthe Rustdocumen-
tation and which of such topics should be prioritized by documenters.
•Conceptual: We modelled the domain knowledge ofRust through a careful analysis of the
official documentation that is maintained by the community. Our domain knowledge is val-
idated by a specialist with years of contribution to the analyzed material (as one of the core
contributors ofRust documentation). Our domain knowledge is encoded as anchor words
anditcanbeusedbyavarietyofsemi-supervisedtopicmodellingtechniquesthatadoptthis
knowledge representation format [49, 51,64,89].
Article Organization:Section 2 motivates our study. Section3 provides background material.
Section4presentsourdatacollectionprocedure.Section 5describesourresults.Section 6discusses
the implications of our findings for documenters. Section7 reflects on the threats to the validity
of our study. Section8presents our conclusions.
2 MOTIVATION
Itiscommonforcommunitiesinchargeofmaintainingprogramminglanguagestoreleasesurveys
to understand the users’ opinions about diverse aspects of the language. By analyzing the latest
surveysfromfiveofthe“mostloved”languages 4 [10](inorder ,Rust,Python,Kotlin,Go,and Julia),
we found that users mention the importance of documentation in all of these surveys. In theRust
survey, participants (n = 8,323) were asked about what they think could be done to improve the
adoption ofRust, and the largest category of answers was “documentation and training” [7]. In
the Python survey, 14% of the respondents (n > 28,000) pointed “clear documentation” as the an-
swertoanopenquestionabouttheirthreefavoritefeaturesofthelanguage[ 6].The Kotlinsurvey
(n = 1,163) showed that almost 25% of the respondents use the language’s official documentation
to set up a project. One of the conclusions drawn by theKotlincommunity based on their survey
isthat“ toincreasethelevelofsatisfactionwith KotlinMultiplatform,weneedtocontinuetoimprove
and maintain the documentation”[18]. Participants of theGosurvey (n = 9,648) were asked about
what could be done to make theGo community more welcoming, and 21% of the respondents of
thisquestion( n = 275)pointedto“improvementoflearningresourcesanddocumentation”[ 4].In
addition,other62%oftherespondents( n = 2,476)pointedthattheystruggleto“findenoughinfor-
mationtofullyimplementafeatureofmyapplication”intheofficial Godocumentation.Similarly,
in theJulia survey (n = 2,565), 26% of the respondents said that “insufficient documentation” is
one of the biggest non-technical problems with the language [11].
Thesurveyresponsesshowthatdocumentationqualityisparamountinpromotingtheadoption
and the usage of a programming language. Moreover, communities devoted to the development
of a programming language are, in general, willing to improve documentation. Also, the official
documentationoccasionallylacksinformation,compellingdeveloperstofindalternativeformsto
obtain information. Therefore, documenters of programming languages will benefit from new ap-
proachestounderstandthestateofthemaintaineddocumentation,especiallyiftheseapproaches
can complement the results and potentially reduce the costs of designing surveys. As the devel-
opment of the official documentation of a programming language typically depends on a central-
ized team and follows a push-based distribution model (i.e., documenters are responsible for the
definition of the available information), each update to the documentation contents needs to be
carefully considered. In particular, to maximize the utility of the documented information, doc-
umenters want to assess the alignment between the maintained documents and the information
4W ed i dn o tfi n da n ys u rv e yf o rt h eTypeScriptlanguage, featured second on the rank of “most loved” languages.
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 5 =====
Assessing the Alignment between the Information Needs of Developers 43:5
needsofdevelopers.Thisrequirementisexemplifiedinthesurveysmentionedabove.Forexample,
oneofthequestionsinthe Gosurveyasks“howhelpfulisofficial Godocumentationforachieving
yourprogramminggoals”[ 4]?Also,oneoftheimmediateactionsstatedbythe Kotlincommunity
inresponsetotheresultsoftheirdocumentation-relatedquestionsincludes“ focus(...)oncommon
user scenarios that are not well covered in documentation”[18].
In this article, we describe a machine learning-based approach that documenters can adopt to
assess the alignment between the concrete information needs of developers and a programming
language’s documentation. The information needs from developers are represented by the top-
ics derived from Q&A websites, as this type of documentation follows a pull-based distribution
model (i.e., information seekers are responsible for the definition of the available information),
and developers post legitimate questions to obtain voluntary answers from other developers. Our
approach, described in detail in Section4.1, uses semi-supervised topic modelling that leverages
domainknowledgetoclusterdocumentsintotopics(eachtopicassociatedwithoneKUfrom Rust).
We first build a concrete model using data from rust-related Q&A posts, then we use this model
to derive the topics of the officialRust documentation. A set of KU metrics, described in detail
in Section4.2, are extracted from the built models and compared against each other, providing
documenters with information about the similarities between the KUs of the concrete and the
documentation models.
3 BACKGROUND AND RELATED WORKS
This section discusses the background material of our study, as well as related works. Section3.1
presents prior studies about programming language documentation and software documentation
in general. Section3.2 presents prior works that extracted developer’s information needs from
Q&Awebsites.Section 3.3presentsasemi-supervisedtopicmodellingtechniquecalledAnchored
Correlation Explanation (CorEx)and discusses the advantages of applying this specific tech-
nique over unsupervised techniques to mine textual data.
3.1 Programming Languages Documentation for Software Engineering
In the context of software engineering, programming language documentation refers to the tech-
nical information that communicates to developers concepts about theusage of a programming
language(i.e.,high-levelconcepts),incontrastwithits implementation(i.e.,formaldefinitions)[ 86].
Examples of such documents include manuals, training material, and API references. The mainte-
nance of programming language documentation is deemed as a fundamental practice since the
initialdaysofsoftwareengineering.In1963,referringtothedocumentationofthe IPL-Vprogram-
ming language (released a few years earlier), Allen [79] wrote that “the main documentation of
IPL-V can be considered complete, official and almost permanently fixed” and that the concern of
future updates to the language documentation was addressed: “(...) documentation is kept on tape
withproceduresforupdatingandmodifyingthedocumentation .” Yngve et al. [99]describedsomeof
the pioneering research in programming languages documentation, recognizing the importance
and discussing the challenges of maintaining this type of documentation. Interestingly, more re-
cent research recognizes (general) documentation maintenance as an often overlooked software
engineering practice [69, 73], pointing to the cost of maintaining documentation as one of the
drivers of this scenario.
At the intersection of programming languages documentation and software engineering au-
tomation, researchers proposed different approaches to automatically generate documentation,
oftenbyanalyzingthestructureofsourcecode.Suchautomatedapproachesaimtosupportingdif-
ferentdevelopmenttasks(suchasexceptionhandling[ 56])anddifferentniches(suchasscientific
programming [78]). Automated approaches are also used to generate documentation to different
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 6 =====
43:6 F. R. Cogo et al.
features of the language, such as its API [76, 87, 100], components [77], and specific syntatic ex-
pressions [46]. One of the main challenges faced by automated documentation tools is to capture
the information needs of developers [70, 71, 92]. For example, Robillard et al. [82] discussed that
research in automated documentation should produce results that better support the information
needs of developers. Treude et al. [92] proposed an automated tool to extract tasks from docu-
mentation to help bridge the gap between the documentation structure and information needs of
developers. Also, the increasing popularity of Q&A websites as a source of documentation has
been explored by researchers to capture the information needs of developers [58,97].
Nonetheless, most of the existing approaches to automate programming language documenta-
tion do not generate information that directly supports the decision-making process of designers,
producers, and curators of documentation (i.e., documenters). Instead, most of the existing auto-
mated approaches focus on supporting program comprehension by developers (i.e., the users of
the documentation) [62]. Although the automatic generation of documentation [68] and the iden-
tificationofinformationneedsofdeveloperscanbeleveragedtosupportdocumentationactivities,
documenters have different requirements than developers that passively consume the documen-
tation. For example, due to limited resources, documenters need to prioritize documentation ef-
fort [75]. As a consequence, automated techniques to support documenters’ decision-making are
necessary, particularly those techniques that are focused on external documenters that produce
material about theusage and features of a programming language, without any particular associ-
ation with a specific software system. Such documenters, as described in Section2, are typically
organized as dedicated teams around a specific programming language.
3.2 Topic Modelling Q&A Websites
Q&A websites (e.g.,Stack Overflow) are popular venues where developers discuss technical as-
pects of programming. These websites allow users to postquestions about a topic and to obtain
answers from other users. Apost in a Q&A website combines the question and the associated an-
swers. Such information has been leveraged by software engineering researchers to understand
what developers discuss about a variety of technologies. Information from posts is used to inves-
tigate the topic trends and challenges in areas such as mobile development [85], security [98],
blockchain [94], machine learning [53], big data [52], deep learning frameworks [59, 66], configu-
rationascode[ 80],concurrency[ 45],internetofthings[ 48],chatbots[ 44],andnewprogramming
languages [57].
Inpriorworks,thediscussiontopicsinQ&Awebsitesarelearnedviaunsupervisedtopicmodels
trained over the textual data of the posts [54]. Topic models learn two hidden components from
thedataofQ&Awebsites.Thefirstcomponentisthesetoftopics,witheachtopicbeingdescribed
as a probability distribution of word types. The second component is the set of documents, with
eachdocumentbeingdescribedasaprobabilitydistributionoftopics(eachdocumentcorresponds
toauniquepost).Byassociatingtopicswithdocuments(posts),researchersleveragethemetadata
of the posts to calculate metrics that denote the popularity and the difficulty of the topics [44, 45,
47,52](e.g.,thepopularityofatopicismeasuredasthenumberoftimesatopicisassociatedwith
ap o s t ) .
The usage of unsupervised topic modelling techniques incurs the cost of topic labelling. Af-
ter using an unsupervised technique to extract the set of topics from the data, researchers must
manually inspect the words with the largest probability to label a topic. However, it is not trivial
to systematically assign labels to topics, and this task typically involves manually analyzing the
top words in each topic, measuring the inter-rater agreement between researchers [57], merging
related topics [52], and discarding meaningless topics [53]. Existing efforts to systematically as-
sign labels to topics involve the derivation of reference architectures and the posterior mapping
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 7 =====
Assessing the Alignment between the Information Needs of Developers 43:7
of topics to layers of the architecture [66, 94]. Still, topics can be difficult to be interpreted, and
someareespeciallyhardtomakesenseofduetoambiguities.Forexample,Hindleetal.[ 67]show
that domain experts are more likely to produce accurate topic labels than non-experts. Moreover,
topic models are susceptible to over-representation of frequent (i.e., more general) topics—an ef-
fect called “rich topics get richer” [63]. As a result, unsupervised techniques hardly represent all
the topics that agree with the researchers’ knowledge about the studied domain, especially when
topics of interest are underrepresented in a corpus. To address this challenge, one can adopt a
semi-supervisedtopicmodelthatusesencodeddomainknowledgetobiasthederivationoftopics
towards topics of interest.
3.3 Topic Modelling with Domain Knowledge
AnchoredCorEx[ 64]isasemi-supervisedtopicmodellingtechniquethatdoesnotassumeaprob-
abilistic generative model and avoids the need of adjusting parameters of a prior probability dis-
tributionsuchasinLDA-basedtopicmodels[ 55].AnchoredCorExalsoacceptstheintegrationof
domainknowledgeintheformof anchorwords,i.e.,asetofkeywordsthatareassociatedwiththe
topicsofinterest.Theseanchorwordsactasmarkersthathelpthemodeltodistinguishparticular
topics from others.5 Therefore, the generated topics can be pre-labelled according to the assigned
meaning to their associated set of anchor words.
3.3.1 Anchored Correlation Explanation. The CorEx approach to topic modelling finds the set
of topics that better “explain” the dependence (a.k.a. correlation) between each topic (a group of
words) and the documents in the data [88]. Consequently, the learned parameters by CorEx are
interpreted as the “association” between the topic and a document. Estimating dependence is a
powerful characteristic of CorEx to represent topics without having to adjust any distribution
parameter. The generated topic models by CorEx assign an individual weight for each topic in a
document(i.e.,thesumofthetopicprobabilitiesvaryfrom0to m,where misthenumberoftopics).
In the CoreEx theory, thetotal correlationis expressed asTC(XG;Y) = /summationtext.1
i∈G I(Xi :Y)−I(XG :Y),
where I is the mutual information of two random variables,Xi is a word type,XG is a specifc
subset of all word typesG,a n dY represents a topic. CorEx finds the configuration of topics that
arethe“mostinformative”ofthewordsanddocumentsbymaximizing TC(Xj;Y1,..., Ym),wher e
Y1,..., Ym are topics andXj the corresponding set of word types of each topic, forj = 1,..., m.
Each topic contributes differently to the total correlation of the model. In turn, each document of
the corpus contributes differently to the total correlation of a topic.
An extension to CorEx is Anchored CorEx [64], which accepts the incorporation of domain
knowledge into the topic models. A set of anchor words [51] representing topics of interest is in-
put to the model, with different anchoring strategies producing different results in terms of topic
derivation.Whenanchoringfortopicseparability,thebeststrategyistoassignasetof(potentially
exclusive)anchorwordstoeachtopic.Duringtraining,theassociationbetweenanchorwordsand
each topic is emphasized by a parameterβthat controls the anchor strength. The ability to incor-
porate anchor words to nudge the topic’s derivation is a valuable feature of CorEx, as it produces
topics that capture a variety of related concepts toRust and that are of interest to documenters.
Inourstudyoftheconceptualalignmentof Rustdocumentation,theabilitytoclusterpostsinto
topics is one of the most critical quality attributes of a topic model, since the studied metrics (de-
scribed in Section4.2) are based on the probability of a topic in a document. Regarding the ability
toclusterdocumentsintotopics(byassociatingadocumenttothetopicwiththehighestprobabil-
ity), Anchored CorEx is shown to be better or comparable to other semi-supervised topic models
5Anchor words is a related concept to prototypes in general clustering [72].
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 8 =====
43:8 F. R. Cogo et al.
Fig. 1. The overview of our approach to studying the topical alignment of Rust documentation.
intwobenchmarkdatasets(DisasterReliefArticlesand20NewsGroup)[ 64],withrespectbothto
theintraclusterquality(homogeneity)andtheinterclustersquality(adjustedmutualinformation).
4 APPROACH
This section describes our approach to assess the topical alignment of the documentation of pro-
gramming languages (Section4.1) and to calculate metrics for our empirical study of the topical
alignment ofRust documentation (Section4.2). Figure1depicts the overview of our approach.
4.1 Deriving Concrete and Documentation Models
We adopt three main steps to derive the concrete and the documention models. We first extract
anchorwordsandKUsfromthelanguagedocumentation(Section 4.1.1)andreviewtheextraction
results with a domain expert. In the next step, we derive a semi-supervised topic model from
Q&A websites using the extracted anchor words to guide the topics derivation (Section4.1.3).
Afterwards, we derive the topics of the official language documentation by leveraging the topics
of the concrete model that was built in the previous step (Section4.1.4).
4.1.1 Extract Anchor Words and KUs.A KU is defined as a group of thematically related con-
cepts within a general knowledge domain (e.g., a programming language). In the knowledge do-
main of programming languages, each KU encapsulates a set of related concepts that need to be
understood by developers. For example, developers need to understand how to operate different
primitivedatatypes (e.g.,scalars,arrays,andtuples)toproperlyusethelanguage.Hence,primitive
datatypescanbeidentifiedasaKUofaprogramminglanguage.Thedocumentationofaprogram-
minglanguagedescribesKUssuchthatdeveloperscanunderstandandoperationalizethedifferent
concepts of the language.
To identify KUs for our case study onRust, we thoroughly read the official documentation of
the language and categorize its contents into KUs. More specifically, we analyze the contents of
eight documents [22] that cover the major relevant concepts of the language and are officially
distributedwiththestandard Rustinstallation(inparticular,weanalyzedthedocumentationthat
is distributed withRust version 1.49.0), namely, The Book [23], The Reference [24], The Cargo
Book [13], Therustc Book [26], Therustdoc Book [27], Rust by Example [19], Nomicon [28], and
the Edition Guide [16]. During the categorization of theRust documentation into KUs, we also
extract a set of associated keywords with each KU. Such keywords are used as the anchor words
of our semi-supervised topic models.
We adopt an inductive procedure to extract and categorize anchor words from the Rust docu-
mentation,similartothethematicsynthesisprocedureasdescribedbyCruzesandDyba[ 61].Our
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 9 =====
Assessing the Alignment between the Information Needs of Developers 43:9
objective is to derive a domain knowledge model that represents the described concepts by the
officialRust documentation and use this model as input to our semi-supervised topic model (see
Section3.3.1).Wederivedadomainknowledgemodelwiththreeabstractionlevels(fromthemore
concretetothemoreabstract):first,thesetofanchorwords;second,theassociatedKUwiththeset
of anchor words; and third, the respective KU category. Our inductive procedure was carried out
bythefirstauthor,whoscreenedthecontentsofeachchapteroftheeightofficialRustdocuments
and identified segments of text that contain related keywords with the explained concepts. Each
of the identified keywords is listed as a candidate anchor word that is iteratively refined during
this inductive procedure. Each chapter’s title, along with the associated sections and subsections,
is used as a start point to determine the associated KU with the candidate anchor words. For ex-
ample,TheBook[ 23]hasachapterentitled“GenericTypes,Traits,andLifetimes,”whichexplains
different concepts related to the topics of generic, traits, and lifetime. Each of these three topics is
assignedasaKU,whiletherelatedconceptsthatareexplainedinthechapterareassignedasasso-
ciated anchor words with each KU. As we learn about the contents of the chapters, we refine the
candidateanchorwordsandtheirassociatedKUs.Attheendofthisiterativeprocess,weinduced
375 anchor words grouped into 44 KUs. Finally, we induced four categories for the 44 KUs, which
describehowtheKUsareconceptuallyunderstoodbydevelopersthatarelearning Rustusingthe
documentation.
After deriving anchor words and KUs from the eight aforementioned documents, we examine
three Rust API references [20, 21, 25] in search of additional anchor words that complement the
initial ones. However, we found that the contents of the three API references cover the same an-
chorwordsthatwereextractedfromtheothereightofficialdocuments.Inaddition,thethreeAPI
referencesaremostlymadeofover-specificdescriptionsofconcretefeaturesofthelanguage(e.g.,
the associated methods with 32-bit integers). We avoided associating such over-specific anchor
wordstoourKUs(e.g.,byavoidingassociatingconcreteprimitivetypessuchas i32toourKUfor
primitive types KU) to prioritize the generalizability of the derived semi-supervised topic models
fromourdomainmodelknowledge.Therefore,wedidnotaddanyanchorwordsfromtheanalysis
of the API references.
4.1.2 Domain Expert Review. We validate the extracted KUs and anchor words from theRust
documentation with a domain expert who has actively participated in theRust documentation
community6 for several years. The domain expert suggested the creation of three additional KUs
(and their respective anchor words) as well as the splitting of another KU and additional anchor
wordsforsomeoftheKUsthatwereoriginallyderived.Attheendofthisprocess,weendedupwith
47KUsandtheirassociatedanchorwords(theassociatedanchorwordswitheachKUaredescribed
inTable A.1ofAppendix A).TheKUsaregroupedintofourcategoriesandshowninTable 1.The
KUs are categorized according to how they are conceptualized and operationalized by developers
who want to learn from the documentation. For example, the category of KUs for development
tools represents as a set of concepts related with the tools that support the development ofRust
applications. Similarly, the category of KUs for data types encompasses the data structures that
are natively provided byRust.
4.1.3 Derive Concrete Model. The concrete model of a programming language documentation
represents the legitimate information needs of developers, as expressed by the voluntary discus-
sions in Q&A websites. Figure2 shows the performed steps to derive the concrete model for our
Rust case study. We initiallycollect and proccess datafrom Q&A websites to generate our corpus.
6https://prev.rust-lang.org/en-US/community.html.
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 10 =====
43:10 F. R. Cogo et al.
Table 1. Derived KUs from the Official Rust Documentation and Their Respective Categories
Category Description Knowledge Units
Data types Data structures that are
natively provided by the
Rustlanguage.
Advanced types, Collections, Enumeration, Generics,
Primitive types, Smart pointers, and Structs
Development
tooling
Tools to support the
development ofRust
applications.
Build, Compilation, Debugging, Dependency management,
Documentation, IDE, Installation and setup, Modularization,
Testing, and Linters
Language
features
Functionalities and
attributes that are natively
provided theRust
language.
Aliasing, Advanced Functions and Closures, Casting,
Control flow, Distribution channels, Exception handling,
File I/O, Foreign Functional Interface, Functional language
features, Lifetime, Macros, Mutability, Object orientation,
Operators and symbols, Ownership, Patterns and
matchings, Traits, and Unsafe Rust
Programming
niche
Specialized set of features
that suits particular
applications ofRust.
Audio, Async, Command line arguments parsing,
Command line interface, Concurrency, Database, Embedded
development, Formatted print, Game development, Logging,
Network development, and Web development
Fig. 2. The performed steps to derive the concrete model.
WethenuseAnchoredCorEx[ 64](seeSection 3.3)toderivetopicsfromthecorpus,settingthean-
chorstrengthandnumberoftopicsparameters.WeusetheextractedanchorwordsofSection 4.1.1
as prototypes [65, 89] to each of the derived topics. In the following, we describe how we collect
data from Q&A websites and how we derive our topic model.
Collect and Pre-process Data from Q&A Websites.Our data collection process encompasses
three steps:extract data from Q&A websites, in which we obtain data fromStack Overflow—a
popular Q&A website for general programming-related discussions—andRust Forum—a specific
Q&A website maintained by theRust community, select Rust-related posts ofStack Overflow,i n
which we selectRust-related posts fromStack Overflow,a n dpre-process the contents of the posts,
in which we prepare our data for our topic modelling.
ExtractDatafromQ&AWebsites: WeextractmetadataaboutthepostsoftwoQ&Awebsites: Stack
Overflow and Rust Forum.D a t af r o mStack Overflowis publicly available through theStack Ex-
change Data Explorer[29] tool, from which we collect thePosts.xml file containing metadata
abouttheposts(thefilewasdownloadedonJanuary11th,2021).Eachpostentryconsistsofeither
a question or one of its associated answers. We match theId field of a question (i.e., an entry
whose PostIdType field is equal to (1) with theParentId field of an answer (i.e., an entry with
PostIdType equal to (2) to link the question and the associated answers that belong to the same
post. Table2describes the collected metadata of each post inStack Overflow.
The Rust Forumwebsite is built upon the open-sourceDiscourse [14] platform, which allows
data to be collected using an API [15]. We start by collecting all the questions7 under the “help”
7Weaccessthe https://users.rust-lang.org/c/help/5.json?page=page_number APIendpoint,where page_numberisaplace-
holder to paginate the results.
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 11 =====
Assessing the Alignment between the Information Needs of Developers 43:11
Table 2. The Posts Metadata Collected from Stack Overflow and Rust Forum
Metadata Description Stack Overflow Rust Forum
Post contents The textual
information of the
question and
answers.
The Body field of the question
and the associated answers.
The cookedfield of the question
and the associated answers.
Post title The associated title
with the post.
The Title field of the question. The titlefield of the question.
Accepted answer
date
T h ed a t eo ft h e
accepted answer of
the post.
The CreationDate field of the
answer whoseIdfield matches
the AcceptedAnswerId field of
the question.
The created_atfield of the
answer whose
accepted_answerfield is true.
Number of
answers
The number of
associated answers
with the post.
The number ofParentIdfields
of the answers that match theId
field of the question.
The number oftopic_id fields
of the answers that match theid
field of the question.
Tags The user assigned
tags to the post.
The Tags field. –
category (i.e., the category of questions that are meant to request help from users of the forum).
We select questions of the “help” category because this is the category under which developers
discuss technical issues about the usage ofRust to solve programming problems and makes up
more than 65% of all posts (the other two larger categories of posts include “uncategorized” and
“announcements” that, together with “help,” make up more than 92% of all posts). After obtaining
metadata of all questions, we collect the metadata of all answers8 associated with each question.
Data fromRust Forumwas collected on February 9th, 2021. Similar to the data fromStack Over-
flow, a post combines the original question and its associated answers. We use theid field of a
question and thetopic_id field of an answer to link the question and the associated answers of
thesamepost.Intotal,wecollected14 ,520questionsfrom RustForum alongwith81 ,225answers.
Table2 describes the collected metadata of each post in theRust Forumand onStack Overflow.
SelectRust-relatedpostsof StackOverflow:InStackOverflow,developerscandiscussthesolutionof
problemsrelatedwithanyprogramminglanguage.Sincewecollectallpostsfrom StackOverflow ,
we need to select posts that are related toRust. To this end, we leverage the user-assigned tags to
identifyallpostsofinterest.Inparticular,wesearchforalltagsin StackOverflow thathave“rust”
as a prefix, ending up with a total of 12 tags (including the “rust” tag). In addition, we derive a set
of keywords from the language’s documentation [22]t h a tStack Overflowusers could potentially
use to tag aRust-related post (i.e., only keywords that effectively exist as a tag inStack Overflow
are considered). The derivation of those keywords is performed by the first author, who read the
title of each section and subsection of the Rust Book [23] and used theStack Overflowwebsite to
find whether the section titles are used as a tag. TableB.1 in AppendixB shows the initial set of
13 Rust-related tags that were are from this procedure. During the derivation of keywords from
the documentation and the comparison of these keywords with the tags inStack Overflow,w e
identified ambiguous keywords that could be used to tag posts related with other programming
languages (e.g., “generics,” “closure,” and “enum”). For sanity checking, we manually analyze all
tagsofthepoststhataretaggedwithanyofthederivedkeywords,thenweremovekeywordsthat
areassociatedwithunrelatedposts.Forinstance,manypostswiththetag“generics”alsohavethe
tag“java”and,forthisreason,weremove“generic”fromourinitialtagset.Table B.1inAppendix B
8We access thehttps://users.rust-lang.org/t/-/topic_id.json?page=page_number API endpoint, wheretopic_idis a place-
holder for the questionidfield andpage_numberis a placeholder to paginate the results.
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 12 =====
43:12 F. R. Cogo et al.
shows our initial set ofRust-related tags that were effectively used to retrieveRust-related posts
fromStack Overflow.
After determining the initial set of keywords, we adopt a similar approach to prior works [74,
85,94] to expand the initial set of tags and to remove irrelevant tags. More specifically, to expand
the initial set of tags, we first search for all posts that contain any of our initial tags of TableB.1,
from which we identify an additional 2,887 tags that are associated with those posts. To remove
any irrelevant tags out of the 2,887 tags, we perform a filtering process based on two thresholds,
namely,tag exclusivity threshold(TET) andtag significance threshold(TST):
TETtaд=
Number of Rust poststaд
Number of total poststaд
> 50%,
TSTtaд=
Number of Rust poststaд
Number of Rust posts with the most popular tag> 1%,
where:
Number of Rust poststaд = number of posts tagged with bothtaдand any of the initial
Rust-related tags.
Number of total poststaд= number of posts tagged withtaд.
The most popular tag = “rust,” which tags 19,335 posts tagged with any of the initial
Rust-related tags.
TherationaleforfilteringouttagswithTET taд <= 50%istoremovetagsthatarenotexclusive
of Rust-related posts. The rationale for filtering out tags with TSTtaд <= 1% is that tags with
highTETcanbeassociatedwithaverylownumberof Rust-relatedposts.Inthesecases,TSTwill
indicate a low confidence level in the tag’s significance to denote a post of interest. We manually
inspectthetagsthatsurviveourthresholdcriteriatoselectthetagsthatareexclusivelyrelatedto
Rust. This procedure consists of reading a list of eight tags and selecting those that are related to
Rust and different from the pre-selected tags shown in TableB.1. A total of three other tags are
addedtoourtagsetduringthismanualinspectionprocess:“lifetime,”“serde,”and“borrowing.”By
selecting the posts with any of these tags, we ended up with 19,603 questions along with 22,715
answers (out of 54,242,283 questions and 82,442,747 answers fromStack Overflow).
Pre-process the contents of the posts:To prepare our data for our topic modelling, we concatenate
theposttitleandthepostcontents(seeTable 2)ofeachQ&Awebsite.Wethencombinetheposts
of both Q&A websites in a unique set of posts. Finally, we perform six pre-processing steps:
(1) Remove code snippets within<code></code>.
(2) Remove HTML tags.
(3) Remove punctuation and non-alphabetic characters.
(4) Replace compound anchor words with their underscored format.
(5) Lemmatize.
(6) Remove stop words.
ToremoveHTMLtags,weusethe BeautifulSoup9 library.Wereplaceanyoccurrenceofacom-
pound anchor word in a post by its underscored format. For example, whenever we identify the
occurrence of the “primitive type” anchor word in a post, we replace such an occurrence with
“primitive_type.” The rationale for this preprocessing step is to ensure that compound anchor
words can be properly captured during the derivation of topics. For lemmatization and stop word
9https://pypi.org/project/beautifulsoup4/.
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 13 =====
Assessing the Alignment between the Information Needs of Developers 43:13
removal, we used theNLTK10 library. After performing the six aforementioned pre-process steps,
we tokenize the contents of the posts and obtain our corpus for the Q&A websites (see Figure2).
TopicModelling. WeusetheAnchoredCorEximplementation[ 12]toautomaticallyderivetopics
fromthecontentsofthe Rust-relatedpostsandtoassignasetoftopicstoeachpost.Twoparame-
tersaregiventothetopicmodellingtechnique:thenumberoftopicsandtheanchorstrength(i.e.,
the probability weight assigned to the anchor words in relation to the other words in a topic).
Numberoftopics: Ideally,ourtopicmodelsshouldhavethesamenumberoftopicsasthenumberof
derived KUs, since this characteristic ensures a one-on-one mapping of anchor words and topics,
which facilitates our analyses in terms of KUs. Note that such one-on-one mapping refers to the
correspondence between anchor words and semi-supervised topics, with the associated KU with
the anchor words serving as a label to the topic. As we adopt Anchored CorEx to derive topics
from theRust-related posts, our model can denote the occurrence of multiple topics in a single
post, or the occurrence of no topics at all if the textual content of the post does not correlate with
any of the extracted topics from the rest of the posts in the dataset. We perform three steps to
determine whether we can obtain quality topics in a model that has the same number of topics as
KUs (or whether, instead, more topics would be needed). In our first step, we derive two tentative
topicmodels,onewith47anchoredtopics(onetopicperKU)andanothermodelwiththesame47
anchored topics and an additional non-anchored topic. We then manually analyze the additional
non-anchored topic to verify the interpretability of this topic. We find that this additional topic
is composed of commonly used words by developers in Q&A websites that cannot be directly
related to a KU ofRust. Specifically, the top-five words in this topic are think, make, thing, case,
andneed.Inasecondstep,wemeasurethedifferencebetweenthecoherence(awell-knownmetric
for topics quality) [83] of the associated topics with each of the two tentative models. Specifically,
we determine whether the increase of the number of topics from 37 to 38 topics translates into
a significant increase in coherence. We found that the difference between the u_mass coherence
of the two tentative models is only 0.090, which does not justify the preference for any specific
model based on the coherence of their topics. Finally, we decompose the models’ overalltotal
correlation (TC)(see Section3.3) into a distribution of individual topic TCs that are calculated
duringmodeltraining[ 88].IfweobserverelativelysmallvaluesoftopicTCinthisdistribution(in
relationtothehighervaluesofTC),thenthenumberoftopicsofthemodelissufficienttoexplain
thecorrelationinthedata,andadditionaltopicswillnotcontributetotheoverallTC[ 64].Figure 3
showsthatthemodelwith47anchoredtopicspresentsagoodcompromisebetweentheabilityto
explain the correlation in the data without additional topics and the requirement of one-on-one
mapping of anchor words and topics.
Different from generative topic models such as LDA, where the topic probability distribution
for a document sums up to one, Anchored CorEx assigns an individual probability for each topic
inadocument.Thischaracteristicimpliesthatadocumentmighthavenotopicsassociatedwithit,
especially when the anchor words of the topics are not representative (e.g., they are insufficient).
After deriving the concrete model, we did not observe any documents without an assigned topic,
increasingourconfidencethatthe47selectedtopicsaresuitabletorepresentthewordassociations
in the Q&A posts. Assuming that a one-on-one mapping exists between anchor words and topics,
we label a topic with the KU that is associated with the set of anchor words of that topic. For
this reason, during our analysis of the topic model (Section5), we use the terms KU and topic
interchangeably. In our formal definitions, we denote the set of topics asK.
10https://www.nltk.org/.
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 14 =====
43:14 F. R. Cogo et al.
Fig. 3. The distribution of the topic TC of the model with 47 anchored topics.
Anchor strength:To determine the anchor strength (see Section3.3), we tentatively build models
with anchor strength parametersβ= {2,5,10,15}. For each of the tentative models, we manually
inspectthegeneratedtopicsandqualitativelyevaluatehowwellthetop20wordsinthetopicagree
with the associated KU with that topic (via assigned anchor words). More specifically, we manu-
ally analyze the derived topics to ensure that there is a correspondence between the associated
anchorwordsandthetopwordsofthetopics.Tocomplementoursanitycheck,wealsomanually
analyze several random instances of the Q&A posts to validate the correspondence between their
textual contents and the associated word types of the derived topics. We observe that the textual
contents of the Q&A websites (question and associated answers) have a strong relationship with
the top words in the generated topic in the sense that, in general, the words used in the Q&A
posts either appear in or are correlated with the topics of the post. We illustrate the findings of
this latter sanity check with the following three category of examples: (1) Some Q&A posts de-
note information needs that are specifically associated with an assigned topic. For instance, the
Q&A post entitled “How to import all macros, derives, and procedural macros in Rust 2018 without
usingexterncrate? ”[38],whichwasassignedwiththemacrostopic,isaspecificinquiryaboutthe
usage of macros in Rust. Another example is the Q&A post entitled “Log4rs - how to use different
levels for appenders”[41], which was assigned with the logging topic (among other topics as well)
and is a specific question about the usage of a log-related library in Rust; (2) Some Q&A posts de-
note information needs that are indirectly related to an assigned topic, with top words associated
with the topic being found in the post. For instance, the Q&A post entitled “Is there an idiomatic
way to implement the component pattern?”[40] was assigned with the game development topic
and inquires about how “to implement the Component pattern commonly used in games” in Rust.
Another example is the Q&A posts entitled “Intercepting libc readlink with a RUST LD_PRELOAD
program hangs when applying to cargo build”[39], which is assigned with the build topic and
inquires about the usage of the linker preload mechanism to trace the cargo build command ex-
ecution; (3) Some Q&A posts denote information needs that are indirectly related to an assigned
topic, without top words associated with the topic being found in the post, but instead inferred
byourunderlyingtopicmodel.Forinstance,theQ&Apostentitled“ HowcanIconvertitbackinto
bson::document::Document on the server side?”[37] was assigned with the database topic. Al-
though the post does not contain any database-related keyword, it was correctly associated with
this topic due to correlation between the words in the post and the associated words with the
database topic.
We also observe that the produced topics with different anchor strengths are very similar and,
in practice, the adoption of a semi-supervised topic modelling to derive the concrete model is
able to generate topics that agree with the KU, regardless of the adopted anchor strength. We can
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 15 =====
Assessing the Alignment between the Information Needs of Developers 43:15
Fig. 4. The performed steps to derive the documentation model.
verifythatmanyadditionalwordsbeyondtheanchorwordsarealsocorrectlyassociatedwiththe
top 20 words of the topics and that such additional words are related to the represented domain
knowledge by the KU. During our manual analysis, we observe that topics that occur in a smaller
number of documents are at risk of having spurious words associated with them (which occur
with any topic model). Therefore, we focus on such topics and strive to select the tentative model
with the least number of spurious words in the top 20 words of these topics. Based on this quali-
tative evaluation, we conclude that an anchor strength parameterβ= 10 produces the best topic-
word distribution among the tentative models. The 47 derived topics are shown in TableC.1 of
Appendix C. Deriving the concrete model results in a topic modelMConcrete with estimate prob-
abilities p(y|x) of a certain topicyto occur in a document (i.e., a Q&A post)x, given the words
inx.
4.1.4 Derive Documentation Model. The derivation of the documentation model encompasses
thetwodepictedstepsofFigure 4.First,we pre-processthecontentsofeachdocument oftheofficial
Rustdocumentation,fromwhichweobtainacorpusofthedocumentation.Next,we calculatethe
distribution of topics that occur in each documentof the corpus.
Pre-process the Contents of the Documents.The officialRustdocumentation consists of a se-
riesofbooks.Inturn,eachbookconsistsofasetofchaptersthatcoverdifferentaspectsofthelan-
guage.Tobuildthecorpusoftheofficiallanguagedocumentation,wecollecteachchapterofthe8
documentsdescribedinSection 4.1.1,inadditiontothechaptersofthreereferenceAPIdocuments,
namely, The Rust Core Allocation and Collections Library [20], The Rust Core Library [21], and
theRustStandardLibrary[ 25].These11booksrepresentthecompletedocumentationdistributed
withthestandardinstallationof Rustversion1.49.0.Thebooksaredistributedinastandard html
format that is automatically generated by themdBook tool.11 To pre-process the contents of each
book chapter, we initially parse the respectivehtml files and extract the text within any<p></p>
tags. We thenconcatenateall the extractedtext thatis associatedwith thesamehtmlfile (as each
file contains the material of one book chapter). Finally, we apply the same preprocessing steps de-
scribed in Section4.1.3and tokenize the extracted text from theRustdocumentation. In total, our
corpus contains 4,754 documents, each one corresponding to a book chapter.12 We then use the
sametopics(wordtypeprobabilitydistribution)oftheconcretemodeltobuildourdocumentation
model.
CalculatetheTopicDistributionofEachDocument. Thedocumentationmodelofaprogram-
ming language represents the topics that occur in each document of the language’s documenta-
tion. By deriving the documentation model, our objective is to measure the topical alignment of
Rust documentation by comparing the prevalence of the topics of the concrete model against the
prevalenceofthetopicsofthedocumentationmodel(furtherdetailsaboutthecalculationoftopic
prevalencearegiveninSection 4.2).Thecomparisonbetweentopicsoftheconcreteandthedocu-
mentationmodelisbasedontwoassumptions.Ourfirstassumptionisthatweonlycomparetopics
11https://github.com/rust-lang/mdBook.
12In total, there are 4,771 chapters in the books of the officialRust documentation. However, 17 of such chapters do not
contain any textual information within<p></p> tags, leaving us with a total of 4,754 useful chapters.
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 16 =====
43:16 F. R. Cogo et al.
thatoccurinbothmodels.Aswederivetheconcretemodelusinginducedanchorwordsfromthe
language’sdocumentation(i.e.,theKUsofinterestthatdocumenterswanttomeasuretopicalalign-
ment),topicsthatoccurintheconcretemodelalsooccurinthedocumentationbydefinition.Note
thatwemakenoassumptionontherelationshipbetweentheKUsofinterestfordocumentersand
the subjects that are effectively discussed by developers in the Q&A posts. Therefore, topics that
co-exist in the concrete and the documentation models can represent a proper subset of all the
discussed subjects in Q&A posts. Hence, to validate our assumption, we need to suppress topics
thatoccurexclusivelyinthedocumentationmodel.Thesuppressionofexclusivetopicsofthedoc-
umentation model does not limit the measurement of topical alignment, as we are not interested
in making claims regarding topics that occur only in the documentation. For instance, we do not
suggest removing topics that are not mentioned in any Q&A post from the documentation, as a
missing topic from Q&A websites might be due to the wide coverage of that topic by the docu-
mentation. Our second assumption is that we perform a paired comparison of topics between the
Q&A posts and the official documentation. By paired comparison, we mean comparing the same
topics (word types distribution) between the concrete and the documentation models.
To satisfy our two assumptions, we leverage theMConcrete model to calculate the probability of
eachtopicfrom MConcrete tooccurineachdocumentoftheofficialdocumentationcollection.This
procedure contrasts with the derivation of a new semi-supervised topic model from data of the
official language’s documentation, potentially containing different topics than the topics of the
concrete model. To derive the documentation model, we apply the same optimization procedure
as described in Section3.3 to assign topics to each document of the language’s official documen-
tation. More specifically, for each document of the official documentation, we calculate the con-
figuration of topicsYConcrete from the concrete model that maximizesTC(XDocumentation;YConcrete),
whereXDocumentation ⊆XConcrete (i.e.,thewordtypesofthedocumentationmodelareconstrainedto
the word types of the concrete model). Note that each topic in the derived documentation model
has the same associated KU with each of the respective topics ofYConcrete.W eu s et h epredict
function provided by CorEx [12] as the implementation of our optimization procedure. The out-
putofthisprocedureistheprobabilityofeachtopic yofYConcrete ineachdocument x oftheofficial
documentation.
4.2 Measuring Topical Alignment
The concrete and documentation models represent an estimate of the probability distribution
p(y|x) of a certain topicyin a post or a documentx, given the word types inx. We leverage
the estimated probabilities of each model to calculate different metrics that measure the topical
alignment between the concrete and the documentation models. As we have a one-on-one map-
ping between KUs and topics, our metrics denote specific characteristics of a KU (e.g., the fre-
quency of a KU) from the measure of properties of the associated topic (e.g., the frequency that
theassociatedtopicwiththeKUoccursinthedocumentsofthecorpus).Figure 5showsthetaxon-
omy of our KU metrics. Two higher-level groups of metrics are theprevalence metrics (studied in
Sections 5.1 and 5.2) and theawareness metrics (studied in Section5.3). Three of the prevalence
metrics, namely,occurrence, co-occurrence,a n ddominance, are used as the basis for the definition
of other four metrics:frequency, co-frequency, coverage,a n daffinity. Three additional metrics are
defined as an awareness metric:attraction, which measures the response rate associated with a
topicintheQ&Awebsites, attention,whichmeasuresthenumberofresponsestoapostinatopic,
and agreement, which measures the rate of accepted answers associated with a topic. The aware-
ness metrics are calculated from metadata of the Q&A websites (see Table2) and, therefore, are
defined only for the concrete model (as we do not have a direct association between a Q&A post
and a document fromRust documentation).
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 17 =====
Assessing the Alignment between the Information Needs of Developers 43:17
Fig. 5. The taxonomy of our KU metrics.
4.2.1 Calculate Prevalence of KUs.
Occurrence: Q&A posts and documents can involve related concepts to different KUs. Therefore,
we wish to denote the occurrence of a topic in a post or document. A topicyoccurs in a post
or documentx if the topic probability is larger than 50%. The choice of a threshold of 50% was
motivatedbythesimilaritybetweenourmodels’estimatedprobabilitiesandtheusageofsigmoid
functions in binary logistic regression, for which the adoption of a 50% threshold is a widespread
practice:
occurrence(y,x) =
{
1, ifp(y|x) > 0.5
0, otherwise.
Co-occurrence: More than one KU might occur in the same document. Hence, we wish to denote
theco-occurrenceoftwotopicsinadocument.Twotopics y′ andy′′ areco-occurrentifbothtopics
occur in a documentx:
co-occurrence(y′,y′′,x) =
{
1, if occurrence(y′,x) +occurrence(y′′,x) = 2
0, otherwise.
Dominance: Although multiple KUs might occur in the same post or document, each of the KUs
in a post or document has a different ability to denote the main subject topic. To differentiate
a KU that is the main subject of post or document from a KU that is as a supplementary sub-
ject, we wish to denote the most representative (a.k.a. dominant) topic from the set of topics in
a post or document. The dominant topic of a post or documentx is the topicywith the largest
probability:
dominance(x) =y:p(y|x) = argmax(p(y|x)), ∀x ∈P .
Frequency: A KU can occur more or less frequently in the posts and documents. Hence, we want
to measure how often the same topic occurs across the posts or documents. The frequency of a
topicyis measured as the number of posts or documentsx in whichyoccurs:
frequency(y) =
/summationdisplay.1
x∈P
occurrence(y,x).
Co-frequency: Two KUs can occur in conjunction in the same post or document. Hence, we want
to measure how often each pair of KUs occurs in a post or document. The co-frequency of a pair
of topicsy′ andy′′ is the total number of times that these two topics occur in the same post or
documentx.
co-frequency(y′,y′′) =
/summationdisplay.1
x∈P
co-ocurrence(y′,y′′,x)
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 18 =====
43:18 F. R. Cogo et al.
Popularity:ThefrequencywithwhichaKUisthemainsubjecttopicofapostordocumentdiffers
depending on the KU. Therefore, we want to measure how often a certain topic is the dominant
topicofapostordocument.The popucoveragelarityofatopic yismeasuredasthenumberofposts
or documentsx in whichyis dominant:
coverage(y) = |{x ∈P : dominance(x) =y}| .
Affinity:KUs that often co-occur in the same post or document share a high level of affinity. Al-
though the relatedness of two KUs can be observed from the co-frequency metric, KUs that occur
too infrequently in comparison with other KUs are penalized by this metric. We want to measure
the affinity of a pair of topics normalized by the number of occurrences of both KUs. Affinity is
calculated as the number of times that a pair of topicsy′ andy′′ co-occur in a post or document
divided by the mean frequency of the topics:
affinity(y′,y′′) = cofrequency(y′,y′′)
(frequency(y′) +frequency(y′′))/2 .
TheaffinitymetricrepresentstheexpectationoftwoKUstooccurinthesamepostordocument.
The metric values range from 0 to 1, with the minimum value representing that the two topics
never co-occur and the maximum value representing that whenever one topic occurs in a post or
document, the other topic also occurs.
4.2.2 Calculate Awareness of KUs.
Attraction: Associated posts with specific KUs can attract more attention from developers than
those associated with others KUs. Q&A posts that do not receive any comment from developers
indicate that developers are not seeking for related information about the KUs that occur in that
post. Therefore, to denote the attraction of developers by a KU, we measure theresponse rate of a
KU that is dominant in the assciated discussion with a post. Formally, leta(x) be the number of
answers of a postx.T h eattraction of a topicyis defined by:
attraction(y) = |{x : dominance(x) =y∧a(x) > 0, ∀x ∈P}|
coverage(y) .
The attraction metric ranges from 0 to 1, with the minimum value occurring when none of the
Q&Aposts x forwhichthetopic yisdominanthaveananswer.Themaximumvalueoccurswhen
all postsx for which the topicyis dominant have an answer. The dominant topic is used in this
metricbecauseweassumethatpostswithoutananswerwillbebetterrepresentedbythedominant
topic. If the topicyis never dominant, then attraction is not defined fory.
Attention: The number of answers that a Q&A post receives can be understood as the amount of
attentionthatdevelopersdrawinthatpost.SincemultipletopicscanoccurinthesameQ&Apost,
eachtopiccancontributewithadifferentweightforattractingattentiontothatpost.The attention
of a topicyis the average probabilityp(y|x)weighted by the number of answers in a postx:
attention(y) =
/summationtext.1
x∈P {p(y|x)× a(x) : occurrence(y,x) > 0}/summationtext.1
x∈P {p(y|x) : occurrence(y,x) > 0} .
The attention metric represents how much a KU contributes to the total number of answers of
the posts for which the KU occurs.
Agreement: The degree with which developers agree with the description of the solution of a pro-
gramming problem can vary. Q&A posts that have an accepted answer indicate that developers
agree with a certain solution to a problem. Therefore, we want to denote the association of a KU
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 19 =====
Assessing the Alignment between the Information Needs of Developers 43:19
withthedevelopers’abilitytoagreewithanacceptedanswer.Formally,let a′(x) /nequal0ifandonlyif
thepost x hasanacceptedanswer.Wedefinethe agreement ofatopic yastheproportionofposts
x in whichyoccurs and that have an accepted answer:
agreement(y) = |{x : occurrence(y,x) > 0∧a′(x) /nequal0, ∀x ∈P}|
|{x : occurrence(y,x) > 0, ∀x ∈P}| .
The agreement metric ranges from 0 to 1, with the minimum value representing that none of
the posts that topicyoccurs have an accepted answer and the maximum value representing that
all posts that topicyoccurs have an accepted answer.
5 RESEARCH QUESTIONS
This section describes the motivation, approach, and results of each of our RQs. Sections5.1, 5.2,
and 5.3 discuss RQ1, RQ2, and RQ3, respectively.
5.1 How the Prevalence of KUs Differs between the Concrete Information Needs of
Developers and the Rust Documentation?
Motivation: Documenters need to assess how likely is the actual state of the documentation to
matchtheinformationneedsofdevelopersandtoreasonaboutthetimingforrevisingthecontents
ofthedocumentation.InthisRQ,we quantify thetopicalalignmentbetweentheconcreteandthe
documentationmodelof RustbydetermininghowsimilaristheprevalenceofKUsbetweenthese
two models.
5.1.1 Analysis of Frequency and Coverage Metrics.
Approach: For both the concrete and documentation models, we analyze the distribution of the
frequency and coverage metrics along the set of all KUs (see Section4.2.1 for a definition of such
metrics).Withthisanalysis,weidentifythemostfrequentandpopularKUsinbothmodelsandob-
servetheshapeofsuchdistributions.Tomeasuretheextenttowhichthefrequencyandpopularity
deviatefromanormaldistribution,wecalculatetheadjustedFisher-Pearsonstandardizedmoment
G1 coefficient of skewness and interpret the absolute value of the coefficient as follows [96]: al-
most symmetric,i f−0.5 ≤G1 ≤0.5, slight skew,i f0 .5 < G1 ≤1.0, orskew,i fG1 > 1.0. We
then analyze whether there is a significant correlation between the coverage or the frequency
of KUs between the concrete and the documentation models and whether a significant correla-
tion exists between the two metrics within the same model. From this analysis, we observe the
extent to which KUs are equally prevalent in the two models and whether KUs that are supple-
mentary (as measured by its frequency) are also the main subject (as measured by its popularity)
of the individual posts or documents. To measure the correlation, we calculate the Spearmanρ
coefficient and interpret its absolute value as follows [81]: negligible,i f0 ≤|ρ|≤ 0.10, weak,i f
0.10 < |ρ|≤ 0.39, moderate,i f0 .39 < |ρ|≤ 0.69, strong,i f0 .69 < |ρ|≤ 0.89, orvery strong,i f
0.89 < |ρ|≤ 1. All hypotheses testing are two-sided and performed under a significance level of
α= 0.05.
Results: In terms of the rank of frequency and coverage of KUs, there is a strong agree-
mentbetweentheconcreteandthedocumentationmodels .Figures 6(a) and6(b)sho wboth
thefrequencyandcoverageofeachKUintheconcreteandthedocumentationmodels,respectively.
The frequency and the coverage of the KUs follow a skewed distribution (see Table3), except for
thedistributionofthefrequencyinthedocumentationmodel.Thisobservationindicatesthatfew
KUs account for most of the individual occurrences and dominances in the documents. Table4
showsthatthereisa strongcorrelationbetweenthefrequencyoftheKUsoftheconcreteandthe
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 20 =====
43:20 F. R. Cogo et al.
Fig. 6. The frequency and popularity of each KU (sorted by frequency) in the concrete and documentation
models of Rust.
Table 3. The Skewness of the Distribution of the Prevalence Metrics in the
Concrete and Conceptual Models of Rust Documentation
Model Metric Skewness
G1 coefficient Significant?
Concrete Frequency 0.21 (almost symmetric) Yes
Coverage 4.36 (skew) Yes
Co-frequency 1.68 (skew) Yes
Affinity 1.46 (skew) Yes
Documentation Frequency 3.64 (skew) Yes
Coverage 4.99 (skew) Yes
Co-frequency 2.78 (skew) Yes
Affinity 1.23 (skew) Yes
documentation models (ρ= 0.72, p-value = 1.59 · 10−8), as well as between the KUs coverage
(ρ= 0.73,p-value = 6.13·10−9).Intheconcretemodel,thefrequencyoftheKUsweaklycorrelates
with the coverage (ρ= 0.53,p-value = 1.11×10−4), suggesting the degree to which the same KU
occurseitherasasupplementaryorasthemainsubjectoftheposts.Inturn,thesamecorrelation
is moderate in the documentation model (ρ= 0.65,p-value = 7.70×10−7).
5.1.2 Analysis of the Co-frequency and Affinity Metrics.
Approach: We first analyze the distribution of the number of KUs that occur in the same post
or document of each model. The objective of this analysis is two-fold: First, we want to analyze
the extent to which more than one KU is associated with the same post or document, rendering
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 21 =====
Assessing the Alignment between the Information Needs of Developers 43:21
Table 4. The Correlation between the Same Metric for Two Different Models of Rust Documentation and
the Correlation between Different Metrics for the Same Model of Rust Documentation
Metrics Comparison Constant Correlation
ρcoefficient Significant?
Frequency & Coverage Different models,
constant metric
Frequency 0.72 (strong) Yes
Popularity 0.73 (strong) Yes
Constant model, different
metrics
Concrete model 0.36 (weak) Yes
Documentation model 0.65 (moderate) Yes
Co-frequency & Affinity Different models,
constant metric
Co-frequency 0.79 (strong) Yes
Affinity 0.69 (strong) Yes
Constant model, different
metrics
Concrete model 0.93 (very strong) Yes
Documentation model 0.75 (strong) Yes
the co-frequency and affinity metrics valid. Second, we want to evaluate how the concrete model
agrees with the documentation model in terms of the number of KUs per post or document. We
use the one-sided Mann-Whitney procedure to test the null hypothesis that the number of KUs
per post of the concrete model is significantly larger than the number of KUs per document
of the documentation model (α = 0.05).13 In case the null hypothesis is rejected, we calculate
the Cliff’s Deltad coeficient [60] to measure the effect size of the difference. We interpret the
coefficient according to the following thresholds [84]: negligible,i f0 ≤| d| < 0.147, small,i f
0.147 ≤|d| < 0.330, medium,i f0 .330 ≤|d| < 0.474, orlarge,i f0 .474 ≤|d|≤ 1. As for the
co-frequency and the affinity metrics, we first analyze the skewness of the distributions of the
twometricsinthetwomodelsusingtheFisher-Pearsonstandardizedmoment G1 coefficient.This
analysisshowswhethertherearepairsofKUsthataremoreprevalentthanothers.Then,forboth
the co-frequency and the affinity metrics of each pair of KUs, we analyze the Spearmanρrank
correlation between the concrete and documentation models, as well as within the same models.
The coefficients of skewness and correlation are interpreted according to the thresholds given in
Section 5.1.1.
Results:MultipleKUsoccurinassociationwithinthesamepostordocument.Still,com-
pared with the documentation model, the concrete model tends to have a significantly
larger number of KUs per post. Figure7 shows that the median number of KUs that occur per
postis9intheconcretemodel,whilethemediannumberofKUsperdocumentinthedocumenta-
tionmodelis2.ThedifferenceinthenumberofKUsperpostordocumentbetweenthetwomodels
is statistically significant (p-value < 0.05) and the effect size is large (|d| = 0.748). As for the co-
frequency and affinity metrics, Table3 shows that the distribution of both metrics are skewed in
both models, suggesting that few pairs of KUs are responsible for most of the co-occurrences in
the posts and documents (which also holds valid when we consider the co-occurrences relative
to the average frequency of the two KUs). In addition, Table4 shows thatthere is a strong cor-
relation between the two models with respect to the rank of the co-frequency and the
affinity metrics.The correlations between the co-frequency and the affinity metrics within the
same model are very strong and strong, respectively, showing that the two metrics share similar
factors that influence their values within a model.
13The null hypothesis was statedafter visualizing the distributions of the number of KUs per document in the concrete
and documentation models.
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 22 =====
43:22 F. R. Cogo et al.
Fig. 7. The distribution of the number of KUs that occur in the same document for the concrete and the
documentation models of Rust.
How the prevalence of KUs differs between the concrete information needs of
developers and theRustdocumentation?
There is a strong agreement between the concrete and documentation models ofRust in
terms of the rank of frequency and coverage metrics. The agreement is also strong for the
rank of co-frequency and affinity metrics. Although the co-frequency and affinity metrics
haveahighcorrelationwithintheconcreteanddocumentationmodels,thesamedoesnot
hold for the frequency and coverage metrics, for which the correlation within the models
are weak and moderate, respectively.
5.2 HowManyKUsAreAbsent,Divergent,orConvergentintheRustDocumentation?
Motivation: Documenters need to determine which KUs differ between the concrete and docu-
mentation models. In particular, documenters can differentiate between KUs that are associated
with three differenttypes of KU alignment, based on the rank of KUs in the concrete and docu-
mentationmodelswithrespecttothefrequencymetric.ThethreecategoriesofKUalignmentare
absent,divergent,andconvergent.An absentKU isaKUthatislowrankedinbothmodels.Docu-
mentersshouldbeawareofabsentKUs,astheyrepresentconceptsthatarerarelydocumentedin
bothmodels.A divergentKU isaKUthatishighrankedintheconcretemodelbutislowrankedin
thedocumentationmodel.Documentersshouldconsiderimprovingtheamount(orenhancingthe
quality) of information about divergent KUs in the official documentation, as these KUs indicate
that there is high demand of information by developers and a scarcity of the same information
typeintheofficialdocumentation.Finally,a convergentKU isaKUthatishighrankedinboththe
concrete and the documentation models. Documenters should be mindful of convergent KUs to
avoid allocating resources to document redundant information.
Approach:TocategorizetheKUsintoconvergent,divergent,andabsent,wefirstdividetherank
of KUs into three segments (in terms of the frequency metric), where the cutoff point of the seg-
ments are determined according to the percentiles of the frequency metric. We call a KU ashigh
ranked KU if this KU is ranked above the associated cutoff point with the highest ranked seg-
ment. Similarly, we call a KU aslow ranked KUif the KU is ranked below the cutoff point for
the lowest ranked segment. As the distribution of the frequency metric has a different shape in
the two models (see Section5.1.1), we adopt different cutoff points depending on the model. We
tried several combinations of cutoffs and we found that the configuration shown in Table5yields
interpretableandinformativeresults.ToaidtheinterpretabilityofouranalysisofthetypesofKU
alignment, we present the findings using an infographics in which the line color represents the
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 23 =====
Assessing the Alignment between the Information Needs of Developers 43:23
typeofKUalignment,whilethelinethicknessrepresentstherankdistancebetweenthesameKU
on the concrete and documentation models.
TheestablishedcutoffpointsinourRustcasestudyareusedtohelpusfocusonKUsthatpoten-
tiallyrequiretopicalalignmentimprovementandarerelativelypositionedinadifferentfrequency
rank. Our objective of using the cutoff points is to avoid arbitrarily pointing to specific KUs that
requiretopicalalignmentimprovement,withouthavingareproducibleformofidentifyingconver-
gent,divergent,andabsentKUs.However,changingthecutoffpointsshowninTable 5makesthe
classification of KUs more or less conservative. Depending on how a documenter wants to iden-
tifyKUswhosetopicalalignmentrequiresimprovement,thecutoffpointscanbeadjusted(oreven
other classification methods can be used). Hence, the cutoff points used in our case study might
not generalize to other scenarios where the documentation has a different topical alignment. For
example, if the low rank cutoff for the concrete and documentation models are always above a
certain percentile (i.e., both low rank cutoffs are larger than zero), then there will always be some
KUsthataredeemedasabsent.Documentersthatwanttobemoreconservativeandidentifyfewer
KUs as divergent or absent can decrease the low rank cutoff points or increase the high rank cut-
off points. Conversely, documenters that want to be less conservative and identify more KUs as
divergentorabsentcanincreasethelowrankcutoffanddecreasethehighrankone.Finally,docu-
menters should consider not only the frequency rank of the KUs, but also the absolute frequency
values to determine the cutoff points and to classify KUs into convergent, divergent, and absent.
In addition, documenters should also rely on their knowledge about the documentation state to
makeaninformedandcriticaldecisionofwhichKUstopayattentiontothetopicalmisalignment.
Toensurethatnomisleadingresultsarereportedinourarticle(i.e,absentanddivergentKUsthat
do not require topical alignment improvement), we perform a validation step based using a qual-
itative analysis of developers’ perception about the documentation state related to the identified
KUs as absent and divergent.
To determine the extent to which developers perceive that the identified absent and divergent
KUsbyourapproachinfactrequirebettertopicalalignment,weperformaqualitativeanalysison
three external information sources. Our objective is to validate our results by identifying pieces
of evidence that support developers’ perceptions about the state of the documentation for absent
and divergent KUs. All the analyzed information sources have the potential to contain voluntary
statements from developers regarding KUs whose documentation is misaligned with their needs.
Therefore,weanalyzethesethreeinformationsourcesinsearchofsupportingevidencethattheas-
sociateddocumentationwithdivergentandabsentKUsrequiresbetteralignmentwithdevelopers’
information needs. Below, we describe each of the analyzed information sources:
(1) Documentation-related issue reports (IRs) and pull requests (PRs):We manually an-
alyzetheIRsandPRsthatwerecreatedontherepositorieswheretheofficialRustdocumen-
tation is maintained. Our objective is to identify which specific parts of the documentation
require improvement.
(2) Rust-related surveys:We analyze the results of the existing Rust-related surveys to iden-
tify whether respondents have pointed out that the documentation of some KUs needs im-
provement.
(3) Documentation-related Q&A posts:We manually analyze Q&A posts to identify state-
ments about the lack of alignment between developers’ information needs and the docu-
mentation.
We search for evidence of topical misalignment for each of the divergent and absent KUs. For
documentation-related IRs and PRs, we screen all information that was created after the release
date of Rust 1.49.0 (December 31st, 2020) up to March 15, 2022 (the date of our analysis). The
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 24 =====
43:24 F. R. Cogo et al.
Table 5. Adopted Cuttoff Points to Determine the
High and Low Ranked KUs
Model High rank cutoff Low rank cutoff
Concrete 50th percentile 25th percentile
Documentation 75th percentile 50th percentile
reason for analyzing information within this specific time frame is to reduce the number of IRs
and PRs that do not refer to the same documentation state as used to derive the documentation
model. In total, we analyzed 1,442 IRs and PRs. We observe that the IRs and PRs are created for
a variety of reasons, ranging from questions about the examples contained in the documentation,
bugreports(e.g.,abrokenexample),requestsforspecifictranslations,generaldiscussions,andim-
provement suggestions. Therefore, during our qualitative analysis, we select (a) IRs that suggest
documentation improvements and that are deemed as relevant (e.g., documenters explicitly agree
with the relevance of the improvement suggestion) and (b) PRs that are merged into the docu-
mentation,whiletyposandotherminorfixesareignored.WealsosearchforexistingRust-related
surveys on the divergent and absent KUs. We primarily focus on surveys in which participants
opine about the state of the documentation on the related KU. To the best of our knowledge, the
only existing survey with this characteristic is related to the KU for game development. Finally,
for documentation-related Q&A posts, we search for posts on the official Rust Q&A website con-
taining the terms “doc,” “docs,” “document,” “documents,” or “documentation.” We found 346 posts
containing at least one of those keywords. We then identify the posts where developers explicitly
mention the documentation of absent or divergent KUs.
Duringthequalitativeanalysisoftheinformationsources,weinferwhichKUsarerelatedtothe
analyzedinformationbyobservingdifferenttextualcues.Forexample,whenanalyzingQ&Aposts
andIRs,weobservereferencestospecificdomainsofthelanguage.Similarly,whenanalyzingPRs,
we observe whichsectionsof the documentation are referredto andthe relation of those sections
withtheKUs.Finally,duringouranalysis,wealsoextractquotesthatsupportthevalidationofour
results and exemplify developers’ information needs. We extracted a total of 63 quotes from the
three information sources. Finally, we combine the supporting evidence gathered from the three
differentinformationsourcestoconfirmtheabsentanddivergentKUsthatdevelopersconsideras
requiring better topical alignment.
Results: We observe the existence of 10 absent KUsfor macros, distribution channels, net-
work development, installation and setup, file I/O, advanced types, game development, advanced
functionsandclosures,database,logging,andcommandlineargumentsparsing.Inadditiontothe
absentKUs, weobservedtheexistenceof6divergentKUs forstructs,patternsandmatchings,
linters,audio,build,andforeignfunctioninterface.Finally, wealsoobservetheexistenceof10
convergentKUs forprimitivetypes,operatorsandsymbols,collections,ownership,objectorien-
tation,errorhandling,generics,documentation,functionallanguagefeatures,anddocumentation.
Figure8 shows the absent, divergent, and convergent KUs in terms of frequency.14
Table6(a)showstheproportionofKUsthatpertaintoeachcategorygroupedbythetypeofKU
alignment(seeTable 1inSection 4.1foradescriptionofthecategoryofKUs).Weobservethat50%
of the absent KUs are categorized as a KU for programming niche, suggesting that documenters
should consider improving the documentation of these KUs to support the adoption ofRust for
those niches. In addition, 40% of the absent KUs are for the category of language features. Most
of the convergent KUs are categorized as KUs for data types (30%) and language features (60%),
14For reference, we also show KUs that were not categorized as absent, divergent, or convergent according to the cuttoff
points shown in Table5.
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 25 =====
Assessing the Alignment between the Information Needs of Developers 43:25
Fig. 8. The absent, divergent, and convergent KUs in terms of the frequency metric. The bars indicate the
frequency of each KU.
suggesting that documenters do emphasize elementary KUs that occur frequently in the concrete
documentation model. Table6(b) shows the proportion of absent, divergent, or convergent KUs
grouped by the category of the KUs. We can observe that the category of KUs for programming
niche has a high proportion of absent KUs (41.6%). In addition, the category of KUs for data types
has a high proportion of convergent KUs (42.8%). Also noteworthy is the proportion of divergent
KUscategorizedaslanguagefeatures(33%),suggestingthattheofficial Rustdocumentationshould
consider improving the coverage of this category of KUs.
Confirmatory analysis:Table 7 shows the results of our validation of the absent and diver-
gent KUs that were identified by our approach. For each of the absent and divergent KUs, the
table records the information sources where supporting evidence of topical misalignment was
identified. We can observe that, among the absent KUs, four KUs (for distribution channels, game
development,logging,andcommandlineargumentsparsing)donothaveanypieceofsupporting
evidence of topical misalignment. Similarly, among the divergent KUs, the only KU for which we
did not identify any piece of evidence is the KU for audio. Interestingly enough, should we have
chosenslightlymoreconservativecutoffpoints(seeTable 5),ourapproachwouldhavenotdeemed
theKUforaudioasdivergent.Wecanalsoobserveadifferenceinthenumberofextractedquotes
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 26 =====
43:26 F. R. Cogo et al.
Table 6. The Relationship between the Proportion of Each Type of KU Alignment and the Proportion of
Different Categories of KUs
(a) ProportionofKUsineachcategoryofKUsgrouped
by the type of KU alignment.
KU alignment Category of KUs Proportion of KUs
Absent Development tooling 10.0%
Language features 40.0%
Programming niche 50.0%
Divergent Data types 16.7%
Development tooling 33.3%
Language features 33.3%
Programming niche 16.7%
Convergent Data types 30.0%
Development tooling 10.0%
Language features 60.0%
(b) The proportion of absent, divergent, and conver-
gent KUs grouped by the category of KUs.
Category of KUs KU alignment Proportion of KUs
Data types Divergent 14.2%
Convergent 42.8%
Development tooling Absent 10.0%
Divergent 20.0%
Convergent 10.0%
Language features Absent 22.0%
Divergent 33.0%
Convergent 11.0%
Programming niche Absent 41.6%
Divergent 8.3%
Table 7. Results of the Validation of the Absent and Divergent KUs
KU Information source Quotes
IRs/PRs Surveys Q&A posts
Structs ✓✗ ✓ Q1,Q2,Q3,Q4,Q5,Q6,Q7
Patterns and matching ✓✗ ✗ Q8,Q9,Q10,Q11,Q12
Linters ✓✗ ✗ Q13,Q14,Q15,Q16,Q17,Q18,Q19
Audio ✗✗✗ —
Build ✓✗ ✓ Q21,Q22,Q23,Q24,Q25,Q26
Foreign function interface ✓✗ ✓ Q29,Q30,Q31,Q32,Q33,Q34
Macros ✓✗ ✓ Q35,Q36,Q37,Q38,Q40,Q40,Q41,Q42,Q43,Q44,Q45,Q46,Q47,Q48
Distribution channels ✗✗✗ —
Network development ✗✗✓ Q49
Installation and setup ✓✗ ✗ Q50,Q51
File I/O ✗✗✓ Q52,Q53
Game development ✗✓ ✗ —
Advanced functions and closures ✓✗ ✓ Q54,Q55,Q56,Q57,Q58,Q59,Q60,Q61
Database ✗✗✓ Q62,Q63
Logging ✗✗✗ —
Command line arguments parsing ✗✗✗ —
A check mark (✓) indicates that a piece of evidence was gathered from the respective information source for a certain
KU. Conversely, a cross mark (✗) indicates that no evidence was gathered from the respective information source and
KU.
amongtheKUs,whichsuggeststhatsomeKUsattractmorevoluntarystatementsfromdevelopers
about topical misalignment than others. The verbatim quotes can be found in AppendixD. Based
on our confirmatory analysis, we can validate the existence of at least six absent KUs for macros,
network development, installation and setup, file I/O, advanced functions and closures, and data-
base. In addition, we can validate the existence of at least five divergent KUs for structs, patterns
and matchings, linters, build, and foreign function interface.
How many KUs are absent, divergent, or convergent in theRustdocumentation?
Ourapproachidentifies6divergent KUs,for which5canbe verifiedthroughaqualitative
analysisofexternalinformation.Ourapproachalsoidentifies10absentKUsintermsofthe
frequency metric, half of them categorized as KUs for programming niches (e.g., network,
game, and database development). A total of 6 KUs that are identified as absent can be
verified through qualitative analysis of external information. Also, one-third of the KUs
that are categorized as language features by our approach are divergent.
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 27 =====
Assessing the Alignment between the Information Needs of Developers 43:27
5.3 Do Convergent, Divergent, and Absent KUs Exhibit Different Awareness in Q&A
Websites?
Motivation: Documenters will benefit from recognizing KUs that need to be prioritized by their
documentation efforts. By triangulating awareness metrics from the concrete documentation
model with the types of KU alignment, documenters can reason about KUs that should be priori-
tized in the documentation. In particular, documenters can assess the extent to which developers
canfindinformationaboutconvergent,divergent,andabsentKUsintheformofanswerstoQ&A
postsand,basedonthisassessment,decidehowtoprioritizecertainKUstoupdatethemaintained
documentation.
Approach: We initially calculate the three awareness metrics for all KUs, from which we obtain
threerankedlistsofKUsandtheirrespectivemedianattraction,attention,andagreement.Wethen
usetheSpearman ρrankcorrelationtoverifywhetherthereisanysignificantdifferencebetween
each pair of awareness metrics that are calculated for the KUs (the estimatedrho coefficient is
interpreted as described in Section5.1.1).
Next, we categorize each KU according to their type of KU alignment (see Section5.2)a n dc a l -
culate the median of each metric for each of the three types of KU alignment. We then compare
the rank of the absent, divergent, and convergent KUs for the same metric. Our comparison con-
sistsofusingtheMann-Whitneyprocedure( α= 0.05)toperformaposthochypothesistestingof
the difference between one type of KU alignment (e.g., convergent KUs) and another type of KU
alignment (e.g., divergent KUs) for a given awareness metric. For each of the awareness metrics,
we test three hypotheses that compare convergent vs. divergent KUs, convergent vs. absent KUs,
and divergent vs. absent KUs. After observing the median of each awareness metric for each type
ofKUalignment,wedecidewhethertochooseaone-(differencebetweenmediansislessthan5%)
ortwo-sided(differencebetweenmediansisgreaterorequalsto5%)testand,whenatwo-sidedis
chosen,thedirectionofthetest.WecorrectthemultiplehypothesistestsusingtheBonferronipro-
cedure [50] over the groups of equivalent comparisons across the different metrics. For instance,
we correct the three tests for the convergent vs. divergent comparison across the attraction, at-
tention, and agreement metrics. For each rejected null hypothesis, we calculate the magnitude of
the difference using the Cliff’s Delta estimator of effect size, with the same interpretation of the
estimates as described in Section5.2.
Results:ThreeoutoffourKUswiththelowestrankforattractionareabsentinthe Rust
documentation, indicating KUs that occur in few documents and often remain unan-
swered.Figure9showstherankedKUsbytheirattraction,attention,andagreementmetrics.We
observe a relatively uniform distribution of values for the same metric across the different KUs.
The median attraction, attention, and agreement are, respectively, 82.2%, 4.66, and 48.0%. The me-
dian value of each metric grouped by type of KU alignment is shown in Table8(a). In terms of
correlation between the awareness metrics, the only correlated rank of KUs is between the atten-
tion and agreement metrics (ρ= −0.653, moderate) with the correlation estimate suggesting a
decreasing monotonic relationship between the ranks (i.e., while the rank of a KU is high for the
attention metric, the rank for the same KU is low for the agreement metric and vice versa). The
correlation between the rank of KUs for the attraction and attention, as well as for the attraction
andagreement,isnotstatisticallysignificant( α= 0.05),suggestingthatthesemetricsdonotshare
common factors associated to their values.
Observing Figure9(a), there is no evident pattern that separates absent, divergent, and
convergent KUs in the rank of KUs by the attraction metric.Nonetheless, the rank of KUs
by the attention and agreement metrics presents clear yet contrary patterns. Figure9(b) sug-
gests thatthe attention metric tends to be larger for absent and divergent KUs than for
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 28 =====
43:28 F. R. Cogo et al.
Fig. 9. KUs ranked by their attraction, attention, and agreement metrics.
convergent KUs, whereas the difference between absent and divergent KUs is not apparent. In
turn, Figure9(c) suggests thatthe agreement metric tends to be larger for convergent KUs
than for absent and divergent KUs, while the difference between absent and divergent KUs
is also unclear. Table8(b) shows the results of our hypothesis tests, which partially confirm our
initial observation of Figure9. Particularly for the attraction metric, the difference between the
rank of absent, divergent, and convergent KUs is not statistically significant. Also, divergent and
absentKUshavenostatisticallysignificantdifferencesforanyoftheawarenessmetrics.However,
the difference between convergent and absent KUs is statistically significant for both the atten-
tionandagreementmetrics,aswellasthedifferencebetweenconvergentanddivergentKUswith
respecttotheagreementmetric.Allthestatisticallysignificantdifferenceshavealargeeffectsize.
The observation that the attention of convergent KUs is systematically smaller than that of ab-
sent KUs indicates that convergent KUs typically occur in Q&A posts that receive fewer answers.
However, by definition, convergent KUs are also associated with a larger proportion of the docu-
mentation. The high amount of associated documents can be related to the fact that most of such
KUs are for data types and language features, i.e., they are elementary KUs (see Section5.1.1)
that are required by almost everyRust developer and related to many other KUs. In turn, the low
amountofanswersinQ&Apostscanberelatedtothefactthatinformationaboutsuchelementary
KUs occurs with a high frequency in the concrete documentation and, therefore, generates fewer
discussions in the form of answers in Q&A posts. The aforementioned conjectures about the at-
tentionofconvergentandabsentKUsaresupportedbytriangulationwiththeagreementofthose
twoKUalignments.TheagreementforconvergentKUsissignificantlylargerthanforabsent(and
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 29 =====
Assessing the Alignment between the Information Needs of Developers 43:29
Table 8. The Relationship between Awareness Metrics and Types of KU Alignment
(a) Medianattraction,attention,andagree-
ment metrics for absent, divergent, and
convergent KUs.
KU alignment Awareness metric Median
Absent Attraction 75.0%
Attention 5.17
Agreement 41.0%
Divergent Attraction 84.0%
Attention 4.53
Agreement 46.0%
Convergent Attraction 85.0%
Attention 4.36
Agreement 52.0%
(b) Rank-based comparison between absent, divergent, and conver-
gent KUs for attraction, attention, and agreement metrics.
Awareness metric Null hypothesis (H0)R e j e c tH0?C l i ff ’ s D e l t a(d)
Attraction Convergent =divergent No —
Convergent ≤absent Yes 0.56(large)
Divergent ≤absent No —
Attention Convergent ≥divergent No —
Convergent ≥absent Yes −0.62(large)
Divergent =absent No —
Agreement Convergent ≤divergent Yes 0.90(large)
Convergent ≤absent Yes 0.76(large)
Divergent ≤absent No —
divergent) KUs, suggesting that developers are more likely to accept an answer for a post that is
related to a thoroughly documented KU.
Do convergent, divergent, and absent KUs exhibit different awareness in Q&A
websites?
AbsentandconvergentKUstendtohaveoppositepatternsofattentionandagreement.Ab-
sent KUs have high ranked values for the attention metric and low ranked values for the
agreement metric. Conversely, convergent KUs have low ranked values for attention and
high ranked values for agreement. A statistically significant difference between the ranks
of KUs for the divergent and convergent KUs concerning the agreement metric exists. All
these differences regarding the ranks of KUs have a large effect size.
6 DISCUSSION
This section discusses the results described in Section5. We draw practical implications for docu-
menters of programming languages and externally validate our results. In Section6.1, we discuss
the usage of our approach by documenters that want to decide what topics of the documentation
should be prioritized when updating the documentation. In Section6.2, we report on our expe-
rience and estimate the effort to instantiate our approach. In Section6.3, we discuss how docu-
menterscanleverageourapproachtomakeinformeddecisionsaboutthedesignofdatacollection
instruments to assess the alignment of a programming language documentation (e.g., survey). In
Section6.4,wediscussthedifferentmaintenancetypesthatweobservedbeingappliedtothe Rust
documentation. In Section6.5, we discuss our observations with respect to the root causes of the
misalignmentbetweendocumentationandinformationneedsofdevelopers.Finally,inSection 6.6,
we compare our findings with those of prior surveys run by theRust community.
6.1 Prioritization of Documentation Contents and Topical Alignment
ThegeneratedresultsbyapplyingourapproachcanbeleveragedbydocumenterstoidentifyKUs
that are not well covered by the documentation and decide which of such KUs to prioritize when
updating the documentation. For instance, an analysis of the absent KUs suggests documentation
topics that should be improved, as absent KUs lack in both the concrete and the documentation
models. To decide which absent KUs should be prioritized when incorporating new information
into the documentation, documenters can search for absent KUs that often attract responses in
Q&A posts (i.e., high attraction or attention) but still have a low rate of agreement. One example
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 30 =====
43:30 F. R. Cogo et al.
is the KU for distribution channels that, although being highly ranked in terms of attraction, is
low ranked in terms of agreement. The same triangulation can be performed for divergent KUs.
When deciding which divergent KUs to prioritize, documenters should consider the rank of the
awareness metrics associated with those KUs. For example, documenters should consider priori-
tizing divergent KUs with higher levels of attraction or attention and lower levels of agreement,
as information seekers will find it challenging to obtain accepted answers about divergent KUs
from Q&A posts. One example is the KU for build, which is associated with high attention but
still exhibits low agreement. In addition, by analyzing the agreement metric of convergent KUs,
documenters can spot information that, although widely covered by the official documentation,
has a high number of posts that remain unanswered in Q&A websites.
6.2 The Required Effort for Instantiating Our Approach
In Section4.1, we describe in detail the performed steps to instantiate our approach to assess
the topical alignment ofRust documentation. Here, we reflect on the effort to perform such an
instantiation, with the objective of providing an estimate of the effort that should be spent for
other programming languages. Although our approach can be almost entirely automated, some
steps require specific manual interventions or the acquisition and pre-processing of external data.
The two related steps with the modelling of domain knowledge from the language documenta-
tion require most of the involved manual effort, namely, the extraction of anchor words and KUs
(Section4.1.1) and the domain expert review (Section4.1.2). However, depending on the expertise
ofthedocumenterthatperformstheformerstep,thelatterstepmightbedispensed(e.g.,theperson
performingtheextractionofanchorwordsandKUsisthesamepersonthatwritesthedocumenta-
tion).Asareference,theextractionofanchorwordsandKUsfromtheofficialRustdocumentation
by someone without any background on the language required approximately 20 person-hours,
while the domain expert review required approximately 1 person-hour. Most of the time during
domainknowledgemodellingwasspentonunderstandingthelanguageconcepts,comingupwith
representativeanchorwordsforthelearnedconcepts,andgroupingtherelatedanchorwordsinto
KUs. Therefore, the required effort for domain knowledge modelling can be drastically reduced
should the person performing the KUs and anchor words extraction be experienced in the pro-
gramming language and its concepts. The effort for domain knowledge modelling also depends
on the granularity level with which the anchor words and KUs describe the containedknowledge
on the documentation. The more broad, detailed, and fine-grained the domain knowledge model
is, the more effort is likely to be required. We instantiated our approach considering a wide cov-
erage of the documentation contents while avoiding overspecific anchor words, as explained in
Section 4.1.1. Finally, the organization level and the documentation style also correlate with the
requiredeffortfordomainknowledgemodelling.Themorecompartmentalizedtheexplainedcon-
ceptsinthedocumentationare,theeasieritistoderiverepresentativeanchorwordsandtogroup
theminto KUs.For instance,the Rustdocumentationis organizedinto thematicbooks,whichare
inturndividedintochaptersthatpresenttheconceptsinastructuredway.Thisformoforganiza-
tionofthedocumentationfacilitatesdomainknowledgemodelling,comparedwithlessstructured
documentation.
The related steps with topic modelling and topical alignment measurement can be entirely au-
tomated,enablinguserstoiterativelyrefinetheassessmentofthetopicalalignmentofaprogram-
ming language’s documentation. Nonetheless, both the collection and pre-processing of external
data, as well as the set up of parameters,are requiredto automate our approach.As for the collec-
tionandpre-processingofexternaldata(Sections 4.1.3and4.1.4),thereareimportantrequirements
to enable the deployment of our approach. Since the contents of Q&A websites are updated at a
fast rate, it is important to set up a streaming infrastructure to periodically acquire new data that
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 31 =====
Assessing the Alignment between the Information Needs of Developers 43:31
reflect the most up-to-date needs of developers. As the data from the stream gets in, the posts of
interest need to be selected so the contents of the selected posts are pre-processed. We learned
from our experience in instantiating our approach to Rust that the automated selection of posts
of interest (described in Section4.1.3—Select Rust-related Posts of Stack Overflow) can be signifi-
cantlyacceleratedshouldthesepostsbeindexedbytheirtags.Asforthesetupofparameters,when
automatically selecting posts of interest (i.e.,Rust-related posts ofStack Overflow), we have suc-
cessfullyadoptedthesameTETandTSTparametersasreportedbypriorwork(seeSection 4.1.3—
Select Rust-related Posts from Stack Overflow). Hence, it is likely that the same parameters can
be successfully reused for the instantiation of our approach for other programming languages as
well. During topic modelling (described in Section4.1.3—Topic Modelling), the parameters for the
number of topics and the anchor strength need to be fine-tuned, which might be done through
manual analysis of the built topic models. Nonetheless, the calculation of the model’s overall TC
can be used to automatically fine-tune the determination of the number of topics (by searching
for the number of topics that optimizes TC). Similarly, classical coherence metrics for the evalu-
ation of topic models can be leveraged to automate the determination of the anchor strength (by
searching for the anchor strength value that optimizes the topics’ coherence).
6.3 Informing Documentation Surveys
Whendesigninginstrumentsforcollectingdatafromthedocumentationusers(e.g.,surveys),doc-
umenterscanleverageourapproachtodecidewithmoreconfidencewhichquestionstoemphasize.
Oneoftheapproachesusedbydocumenterstounderstandtheopportunitiestoimproveaprogram-
ming language’s official documentation is to release surveys to developers. Despite the accurate,
detailed, and significant information received through surveys, collecting and analyzing data us-
ing this instrument can require high amounts of time and effort. For example, the generated data
during the design of the latest Rust Annual Survey [42] shows that running the survey involved
four-month-longteamwork[ 43],includingidentifyingkeystakeholders[ 35],designingthesurvey
questionnaire[31,32],translatingthequestionnairetomultiplelanguages[ 43],obtainingfeedback
from the authors of prior surveys [36], hosting the survey in a specialized platform [34], and an-
alyzing and publicizing the results [33]. The effort to run the survey is such that the responsible
team for its design explicitly questions its cost-effectiveness: “(...) we should ask if the survey in
its entirety is producing enough useful data to be worthwhile (given the relatively high cost of
producing the survey, analyzing the data, etc.)” [31]. One important lesson learned by applying
our approach to assess the topical alignment ofRust documentation is that it is relatively easy to
obtain data to build a concrete model of the information needs of developers. After setting up a
basic infrastructure for data collection and model training, documenters can efficiently perform
iterative analyses to validate and refine hypotheses and complement the results of their survey
efforts.Forexample,consideraclosedquestionofthelatestsurveyreleasedbythe Gocommunity
that asks “when using officialGo documentation, have you struggled with any of the following.”
Among all answers for this question (n = 2,476), 31% selected “none of the statements apply to
me,” showing that documenters will benefit from having a form of iteratively refining research
questions. Furthermore, documenters can vary the form of domain knowledge specification (e.g.,
byconsideringdifferent KUsorassociatingdifferentanchorwordstotheexistingKUs),suchthat
different KUs of interest can be incorporated into the documentation models, and new analysis
canbeperformedaboutmorespecificorgeneraltopics.Asanotherexampleofthe Gosurvey,the
question “how helpful is officialGo documentation for achieving your programming goals in the
following areas” contains a set of seven pre-specified answers. Based on the obtained responses,
documenters can use our approach to further understand the documentation of related KUs with
the “least helpful” areas. More concretely, in the example question of theGo survey, the most
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 32 =====
43:32 F. R. Cogo et al.
popular answer was “using modules.” Documenters can then hypothesize about a set of modules
thatdevelopersmightbeencounteringdifficultyfindingdocumentationaboutandaddthosemod-
ules as KUs to a new iterative run of our approach. Nonetheless, our approach is not intended to
replace surveys as a form of assessing developers’ information needs but, rather, to complement
thisinstrument.Inthissense,muchoftheanalysesoftheKUmetricscanbeusedtoeitherinform
thedesignofthedocumentationortoinformthedevelopmentofotherdatacollectioninstruments,
such as surveys.
6.4 On the Maintenance of the Documentation
In Section5.2, when analyzing the selected quotes for each of the absent and divergent KUs (see
Appendix D), we can observe that different maintenance types are applied to the documentation.
More specifically, adopting the software maintenance dimensions as proposed by Swansom [90],
we observe that corrective, adaptive, and perfective maintenance are equally applied to the docu-
mentationofthoseKUs.Thisobservationsuggeststhat,inparalleltotheadditionofnewcontents,
absent and divergent KUs should also require all types of maintenance efforts from documenters.
Therefore,documentersshouldcarefullybalancetheallocationofresourcestotheadditionofnew
content and the maintenance of the existing contents for absent and divergent KUs. Furthermore,
while corrective and perfective maintenance is typically performed on the basis of distributed
and isolated contributions from the developers that use the documentation (e.g., by means of IRs
and PRs), adaptive maintenance and new contents addition requires a coordinated effort from the
core documentation contributors to keep track of new languages features and document them
accordingly.
6.5 Leveraging Co-frequency to Meet Developers’ Information Needs
DuringourqualitativeanalysisdescribedinSection 5.2,weobservethattopicalmisalignmentcan
stemeitherfromboththedocumentationcontentsorthedocumentationpresentationaswell.For
example, occasionally developers report that their information needs cannot be met due to issues
with the documentation searchability [2, 3] and navigability??. In Section5.1.2,w ea l s of o u n d
that multiple KUs typically co-occur in the same document, which suggests that documenting in-
formation aboutRust often requires the compilation of multiple subjects in a single document.
We also compared the distribution of the number of KUs that co-occur in the same document be-
tween the concrete and documentation models. We found that a large difference exists between
thedistributions.TheseobservationssuggestthatdocumentersshouldcarefullyconsiderhowKUs
shouldbecombinedinthesamedocumenttomatchdevelopers’informationneeds.Apossibleso-
lution that documenters can consider to improve documentation searchability and navigability is
cross-linking related KUs in the official documentation. The distribution of the co-frequency and
affinity metrics of the concrete model can be used to assess which required information by devel-
opers typically involves more than one KU. The co-frequency and affinity metrics can highlight
pairs of KUs for which documenters should pay attention to the differences and similarities and
potentially cross-link these KUs. For instance, by manually inspecting the ranked list of pairs of
KUs with the highest affinity, we observe that the KUs for traits and object orientation have a
highaffinity.Althoughthisobservationisnotsurprising,giventhatbothKUssharearemarkably
high number of related concepts, in fact, traits do not support all features of an object in a strict
sense. In particular, the dynamic binding mechanism of traits does not support the concept of in-
heritance typically found in languages designed as object-oriented (e.g.,Java). Therefore, pairs of
KUswithhighco-frequencyandaffinitycanhelpdocumenterstoidentifyKUsforwhichdevelop-
ers will benefit from examples that promote the comparison between related concepts of one KU
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 33 =====
Assessing the Alignment between the Information Needs of Developers 43:33
to another, as well as KUs whose differences and similarities should be better emphasized in the
documentation.
6.6 External Validation
In Section5.1, we found that the rank of prevalent KUs is similar between the concrete and docu-
mentation models. This observation suggests that, with some exceptions, developers seeking for
information will find similar distributions of KUs among posts of Q&A websites and the official
documentation. Still, it is valuable to pay attention to the absent and divergent KUs, as they rep-
resent topical misalignments. Table6(a) shows that the associated KUs with programming niches
are at a higher risk of being absent from theRust documentation. In addition, a close inspection
intherankedKUsbyattractionshowsthattheKUforgame developmentreceivesfeweranswers
thanotherabsentKUs.Thisobservationcanbeexternallyvalidatedbyexaminingthe RustGame
Development Survey released in 2020 [8]. When asked about the negative aspects of usingRust
for game development, respondents often point to documentation as one of these aspects, which
confirms that developers do have an interest in improving the documentation related to the KU
for game development. It is also noteworthy the willingness of theRust community to promote
the adoption of the language for other niches that are associated with absent KUs. For example,
a working group for database development (one of the absent KUs) was recently created, and
the Rust users already publicly expressed their wish for documentation improvement: “I’d love to
see some ‘database book’ that covers connections, drivers, pools, has examples for every feature and
gives overview of ecosystem. Individual project would benefit greatly from better docs”[5]. These ob-
servations suggest that engaged communities promoting the adoption ofRust for programming
niches that are associated with absent KUs should attract documenters. Interestingly, some well-
documented programming niches (e.g., embedded development, which has a specialized book in
the official documentation [17]) are not deemed as divergent nor absent, suggesting that these
niches are likely well prepared for a potentially growing community of developers.
Inthe pastfew years, theRustcommunity ranthe RustSurvey[7]to understandtheevolution,
challenges, and opportunities of the language. One of the survey questions regards the difficulty
ofspecifictopics.Participantshavepointedoutthatlifetime,ownership,macros,traitbounds,and
async are the most “tricky or very difficult” topics, respectively. We observe that, while the KUs
for traits and ownership are perceived as difficult, they are also associated with convergent KUs.
AplausiblerelationshipbetweentheperceiveddifficultyofsuchKUsandtheirhighfrequencyon
Q&A websites and the documentation is that information about those KUs might be noisy and
often scattered over many documents, making it difficult for developers to pinpoint the informa-
tionthatdiscussesspecificitiesoftheseKUs.Therefore,documenterscouldconsidernewformsof
organizing documentation regarding those KUs, focusing on understanding specific pain points
from developers on those KUs, and tackling more specific issues around those KUs in the docu-
mentation.Additionally,theKUformacrosisbothabsentandperceivedasdifficultbydevelopers,
raisingaflagtodocumentersregardingthequalityandcompletenessofthedocumentationaround
this specific KU.
7 THREATS TO VALIDITY
This section discusses the threats to the validity of our study.
Selection ofRust-related Posts fromStack Overflow: As we leverage the tags fromStack
Overflow to identifyRust-related posts, our set of posts can be incomplete (i.e., we might have
missed someRust-related posts). The incompleteness stems from the fact that some users might
use an unrelated tag toRustthat our selection procedure did not capture. Nonetheless, we expect
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 34 =====
43:34 F. R. Cogo et al.
that this threat is satisfactorily mitigated by expanding the list of intially selected posts using the
TET and TST thresholds.
Anchor Words Definition:Our set of anchor words was directly derived from the officialRust
documentation. Still, the set of anchor words was used to train topic models from data from Q&A
websites. Therefore, some of the adopted terminology can differ between the two data sources.
Nonetheless, to mitigate this threat, we use the all known related terms to compose our set of
associated anchor words with a KU and validated the terminology with a domain expert.
KUMetrics: Afundamentalprincipletothevalidityofourmetrics(i.e.,theabilityofourmetrics
tocapturetheprevalenceandawarenessofaKU)isthequalityofthetopic-documentassignment
of our models. With regards to this factor, during our analyses, we performed sanity checkings
to ensure that the topics assigned to each post were in fact corrected. We observe that our topic
modelscanreliablydeterminethesetoftopicsinapost.However,wealsoobservethattheability
of the dominant topic to distinguish the main subject of a post is smaller. We also verified the
ability of our metrics to measure distinct phenomena by running different correlation analyses.
Although some degree of correlation exists between our metrics, we can verify that these metrics
are able to measure different aspects related to the prevalence and difficulty of a KU.
PostswithoutTopics: AnchoredCorExassignsanindividualprobabilityforeachtopicinapost.
Sinceallassignedtopicprobabilitiestoapostcanbelowerthan0 .5,somepostscanendupwithout
anyoccurringtopicsaftercalculatingtheoccurrencemetric(seeSection 4.2.1).Tounderstandhow
this scenario might threaten the validity of our results, we investigated how often it happens and
we found that only 0.43% of the posts have no occurring topics, which has a negligible impact on
our results.
DefinitionofAbsent,Divergent,andConvergentKUs: TocategorizeKUintothethreetypes
of KU alignment, we adopted a cutoff threshold to separate the rank of KUs into segments. We
experimentedwithmanydifferentcombinationsofcutoffvaluesinsearchforaconfigurationthat
allowed us to obtain interpretable and presentable results. For example, during our experimenta-
tion, we searched for a cutoff setup that included at least one of the three types of KU alignment
and that included a certain number of KU in each type such that we could discuss the results
in the article. Nonetheless, documenters interested in using our approach can experiment with
other cutoff values, depending on how conservatively they want to represent the three types of
KU alignment.
8 CONCLUSIONS
Inthisarticle,wepresentamachinelearning–basedapproachtostudythetopicalalignmentofpro-
gramming languages documentation, defined as the difference between the concrete developers’
informationneedsandthecurrentstateofthedocumentation.Ourapproachusesanon-parametric
semi-supervised topic model to derive the set of topics from posts of Q&A websites. Such topic
model represents the topics that make up the concrete information needs of developers, and it is
used to derive the topics of the programming language documentation. We also propose a set of
metrics to measure and evaluate the differences and similarities between the topics of the Q&A
websitesandthetopicsoftheprogramminglanguagedocumentation.Basedonourapproach,we
perform an empirical study usingRust as a case study.
Ourempiricalstudyrevealsthat,ingeneral,thedistributionoftopicsthatmakeuptheconcrete
information needs of developers share a high degree of similarity with the topics ofRust docu-
mentation. Nonetheless, our study highlights topics for which theRust documentation requires
improvementandindicatesmissingtopicsfromthedocumentationthatdevelopersarenotableto
obtain answers from Q&A websites. More generally, we identified that KUs that occur with less
frequencyinboththeQ&AwebsitesandtheofficialdocumentationareoftenassociatedwithKUs
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 35 =====
Assessing the Alignment between the Information Needs of Developers 43:35
thatarecategorizedasprogrammingniches(e.g.,network,game,web,anddatabasedevelopment).
ThoseKUsalsohaveahighnumberofanswersinQ&Awebsitesbut,atthesametime,havelower
oddsofhavinganacceptedanswer.Inaddition,KUsthatarecategorizedaslanguagefeatures(e.g.,
structs, patterns and matchings, and foreign function interface) often occur in Q&A websites but
notintheofficialdocumentationof Rust.Theseobservationsarenoteworthy,astheysuggestKUs
thatshouldreceivepriorityfromdocumenterswhenupdatingthedocumentation.Ourstudycon-
tributestothebodyofknowledgeregardingthedocumentationofprogramminglanguagesandis
of particular interest for practitioners that are engaged in actively producing information instead
of passively consuming information from the documents collection.
APPENDICES
A DESCRIPTION OF THE KUS
TableA.1shows the extracted KUs from the official documentation ofRust.
Table A.1. The Derived KUs from Rust’s Official Documentation and Their Respective Anchor Words
Category Knowledge Unit Anchor words
Data types Primitive types type, primitive_type, scalar_type, compound_type,
tuple, array, scalar, slice
Structs struct, named_field, name_field, structure
Enumeration enum, enumeration, variant
Collections common_collections, common_collection, collections,
collection, vector, hashmap, hash_map, append, index,
std_collection, stdcollection, std_collections,
stdcollections, vec, hashset, hash_set
Generics generic, generic_type, concrete, abstract,
monomorphization, bound, phantom_type
Smart pointers smart_pointer, reference_counting, deref, deref_trait,
drop_trait, interior_mutability, reference_cycles,
cons_list, con_list, cons_function, con_function,
reference_cycle, recursive_type, dereference_operator
Advanced Types newtype, newtype_pattern, type_alias, never_type,
dynamically_sized_type, dst, unsized_types, dynamic_
size_type, dynamic_size, unsize_type, unit_type
Development tooling IDE rls, rust_analyzer, ide, visual_studio
Linters rustfmt, rustfix, clippy, linter, lint, rust-clippy
Installation and setup installation, install, hello_world, rustup, rustup.rs
Modularization module, reuse, external_code, private, public, visibility,
file_hierarchy, file_hierarch, reexport, workspace
Testing test, automated_test, automate_test, assert, unit_test,
integration_test, cargo_test
Dependency management release, release_profile, library, crates_io, yank,
cargo_install, lockfile, dependency, update_
dependency, cargo_publish, semver
Compilation rustc, crate, compilation_unit, crate_file, compiler,
compilation, flag, compiler_flag, compile_flag,
compiler_option, compile_option, cargo_rustc,
crate_type, link_crate, abi,
application_binary_interface
Build build, cargo_toml, build_script, build_rs, cargo_build
Documentation rustdoc, cargo_doc, cargodoc, doctest, document_api,
rfc1574, rfc1946, pass, passes
Debugging debug, std_fmt, debug_info, debug_symbol, debugger,
rustdt, msvc_abi, rust_gdb, gdb, rust_lldb
(Continued)
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 36 =====
43:36 F. R. Cogo et al.
Table A.1. Continued
Category Knowledge Unit Anchor words
Language features Ownership ownership, stack, heap, reference, borrow, move, copy,
partial_move, drop, forget
Error handling error_handling, exception, recoverable_error,
unrecoverable_error, unrecover_error, panic, abort,
unwind, result, option
Functional language features functional_programming, functional_style, closure,
anonymous, anonymous_type, anonymous_function,
type_anonymity, type_anonym, iterator_trait, next_
method, hof, high_order_function
Object Orientation object_oriented, object_orientation, oo, oop, object,
inheritance, trait
Patterns and Matchings pattern_matching, pattern_match, match, if_let,
while_
let, matches
Unsafe Rust unsafe, unsafety, memory_unsafety, unsafe_trait,
raw_pointer, transmute
Traits advanced_trait, associated_types, operator_overload,
default_type_parameter, trait_implementation,
implement_trait, supertrait
Advanced Functions and
Closures
function_pointer, function_point, return_closure,
returning_closure, hrtb, higher_rank_trait_bound
Macros macro, declarative_macro, procedural_macro,
metaprogramming, derive_macro
Operators and symbols operators, symbols, literal, constant, const
Distribution channels nightly, night, distribution_channel, distribut_channel,
night_rust, train_schedule, rust_release, next_train,
release_train, feature_flag, install_night,
unstable_feature, nightly_release, night_release
Mutability variable_binding,mutable,mutability,immutable,mut,
mut_modifier, freeze, frozen
Lifetime variable_shadow, shadow, variable_binding, block,
scope, raii, lifetime, drop, scope, out_scope,
lifetime_annotation
Casting cast, casting, type_conversion, type_inference,
from_trait, into_trait, tryfrom, tryinto, tostring,
fromstr
Aliasing alias, type_alias
Control flow condition, boolean_condition, boolean_condit,
control_flow, decision, loop, break, continue, std_iter,
named_loop
File I/O file_read, file_write, file_method, read_only, readonly,
file_descriptor, write_only, writeonly, line_file, std_io,
open_options
Foreign function interface ffi, foreign_function_interface, foreign_interface,
foreign_function, foreign_library, snappy, libc, wrap,
foreign_global, no_mangle, bindgen
Programming niche Concurrency concurrency, concurrent, race_condition, deadlock,
multithread, thread, process, spawn, message_pass,
producer, consumer, mutex, mutexes, std_sync,
std_thread, rayon
Game development game, roguelike, sokoban, game_engine, windowing,
physics, rendering, fmod, openal, ggez
(Continued)
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 37 =====
Assessing the Alignment between the Information Needs of Developers 43:37
Table A.1. Continued
Category Knowledge Unit Anchor words
Web development web, web_development, web_api, rocket, actix_web,
diesel, sqlx, oauth, cookie, oauth2, html, css,
webassembly, http, http_request
Network development openssl, network, network_layer, dns, tcp_ip, ip, tcp,
udp, std_net, ftp, smtp, cryptography, encryption,
certificate
Embedded development embed, embedded, microcontroller, qemu, interrupt,
spi, uart, rs232, usb, i2c, ttl
Database database, sqlx, db, mongodb, sqlite, postgres, mysql,
sql, driver, orms, orm, elasticsearch
Logging logging, log, console_logger, env_logger, log4rs, fern,
syslog, log
Audio audio, midi, music, audio_decoder, audio_decode,
audio_encoder, audio_encode, libsoundio
Command line interface command_line, argument_parse, ansi_terminal,
ansi_term, terminal, ansi, termcolor
Formatted print format_print, formatted_print, formating, format,
print, formatting_trait, format_trait
Async tokio, async_std, mio, future
Command line arguments
parsing
clap, structopt, std_env_arg
B INITIAL TAG SET
TableB.1 shows the initial set ofRust-related tags.
Table B.1. Our Initial Set of Rust-Related Tags
Category Tag
Derived from Stack
Overflow
Derived from
documentation
General “rust” –
Language feature “rust-macros” “borrow”
“rust-proc-macros” “borrow-checker”
“rust-obsolete” “supertrait”
“rust-crates” “unsafe”
– “refcell”
– “collections”
–“ c r a t e ”
Development tool “rust-cargo” “rustc”
“rust-tokio” “rustup”
“rust-diesel’ “rustdoc”
“rust-actix” “rustfix”
“rust-rocket’ “clippy”
“rust-warp” “rls”
“rust-chrono” –
“rust-piston” –
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 38 =====
43:38 F. R. Cogo et al.
C DERIVED TOPICS
TableC.1showsthetop20wordsofthesemi-supervisedtopicmodelassociatedwiththeconcrete
model.
Table C.1. The Top 20 Words of Each Derived Topic of the Concrete Model
Topic
(associated KU)
Word types
Advanced Types unstable, newtype, specialization, dst, type_alias, dynamically_sized_type,
unsized_type, unit_type, unboxed_closures, fn_traits, const_fn, unsize,
type_alias_impl_trait, never_type, newtype_pattern, type_ascription,
associated_type_defaults, dynamic_size, specialized, newtypes
Collections vec, vector, iter, map, hashmap, element, item, collection, std_collection, index, string,
hashset, collect, hash_map, push, iterator, len, into_iter, append, usize
Enumeration enum, variant, enums, enumeration, myenum, union, discriminant, tag, untagged,
e0015, nil, exhaustive, tagged, strum, variant1, strum_macros, variant2, uninhabited,
discriminator, boolean
Generics trait, type, generic, parameter, bound, concrete, generic_type, abstract, note, sized,
monomorphization, required, requirement, ops, constraint, known, annotation,
inference, mismatch, accept
Primitive types value, type, element, vector, slice, array, tuple, scalar, primitive_type, length, integer,
indexing, tuples, val, f64, pair, f32, arr, contiguous, elem
Smart pointers deref, interior_mutability, derefmut, case, smart_pointer, actually, mean, memory, doe,
reason, example, different, instead, data, reference_counting, possible, kind,
understand, fact, place
Structs struct, structs, structure, impl, self, fn, pub, field, deserialize, foo, phantomdata,
member, serialize, mystruct, bool, eq, name_field, constructor, named_field, u32
Build build, cargo, cargo_toml, cargo_build, build_script, project, toml, github, registry,
building, git, 1ecc6299db9ec823, built, manifest, edition, latest, profile, builder, ci, cdylib
Compilation build, cargo, rustc, compilation, compiled, flag, compile, crate, library, abi, crate_type,
cargo_rustc, compiler, compiling, v0, aborting, compiler_flag, previous, information,
verbose
Debugging debug, std_fmt, gdb, debugger, derive, debug_info, partialeq, fmt, breakpoints,
debuginfo, formatter, rustdt, unoptimized, display, rust_gdb, debug_symbol, serde,
codelldb, debugging, openocd
Dependency
management
library, cargo, dependency, release, package, crate_io, semver, standard, version,
cargo_install, author, lockfile, yank, party, publish, compatibility, update_dependency,
published, utils, publishing
Documentation test, pas, passed, passing, pass, doctest, cargo_doc, run_test, utilizing, new_string,
testresult, arg3, arg2, mycallback, redacted, den, d4h0, spice, fluff, alleviates
IDE ide, vscode, rls, intellij, visual_studio, thanks, lot, right, maybe, help, post, yes, thank,
language, issue, people, try, great, guess, thought
Installation and setup install, installed, hello_world, rustup, installation, x86_64, gnu, usr, toolchain,
toolchains, rustlib, unknown, ld, libstd, pc, installing, libcore, cc, msvc, ubuntu
Linters closed, topic, reply, day, automatically, wa, allowed, longer, clippy, lint, new, invite,
rustfmt, comment, open, question, hello, linting, linter, alice
Modularization crate, module, import, public, private, workspace, exported, visibility, submodule,
submodules, publicly, privacy, mod, reexport, external, export, unresolved, importing,
imported, external_code
Testing test, assert, unit_test, cargo_test, it_works, integration_test, assert_eq, my_test, cfg,
testing, should_panic, test_foo, super, bench, some_test, assertion, bencher, integration,
measured, suite
Advanced Functions
and Closures
function_pointer, hrtb, return_closure, returning_closure, higher_rank_trait_bound,
function_point, call_it, add_closure, higher_order, amet, dolor, f8,
cortex_m_semihosting, 0x14, 0x28, 0x00, stm32f4, toabc, fnset, vec_closure
(Continued)
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 39 =====
Assessing the Alignment between the Information Needs of Developers 43:39
Table C.1. Continued
Topic
(associated KU)
Word types
Aliasing trait, type, parameter, define, alias, type_alias, defined, associated, definition, following,
specify, named, defining, constrained, defines, rh, mul, inherent, unconstrained, ranked
Casting convert, cast, casting, fromstr, type_inference, tryfrom, tostring, tryinto, type_
conversion, conversion, converting, converted, try_from, try_into, tryfromsliceerror, i8,
u16, digit, e0605, convertible
Control flow loop, break, continue, condition, decision, control_flow, iteration, event, controlflow,
looping, infinite, skip, std_iter, quit, subsequent, continuously, met, panic_handler,
iterative, panicinfo
Distribution channels nightly, stable, unstable_feature, night, nightlies, feature_flag, feature, rust_release,
nightly_release, beta, build_run, experimental, stabilized, rust1, multirust, stability,
intrinsic, gate, enabling, stabilization
Error handling result, error, err, option, panic, panicking, abort, exception, error_handling, unwind,
return, catch_unwind, std, unwrap, src, message, failure, invalid, success, fails
File I/O std_io, file_read, file_descriptor, io, readonly, line_file, stdin, read, read_line, file_write,
bufreader, buffer, bufread, reader, byte, expect, buf, stdout, input, line
Foreign function
interface
extern, wrap, ffi, libc, no_mangle, c_void, bindgen, macro_use, stdcall, c_double,
foreign_function, link_name, c_int, serde_derive, snappy, typedef, no_std,
rustc_serialize, c_str, winapi
Functional language
features
lifetime, parameter, closure, outlive, function, anonymous, infer, argument, fnmut,
conflicting, anonymous_type, body, fnonce, functional_programming,
anonymous_function, captured, capture, iterator_trait, callback, inferred
Lifetime lifetime, reference, dropped, drop, scope, variable, block, live, lifetime_annotation, long,
raii, valid, life, shadow, e0597, static, e0495, temporary, explicit, variable_binding
Macros macro, procedural, procedural_macro, macro_rules, derive_macro, ident, expr,
declarative, declarative_macro, tt, metaprogramming, expansion, ty, proc, originates,
token, tokenstream, expand, generate, macro_export
Mutability borrow, reference, mutable, mut, immutable, mutate, mutability, checker, borrows,
occurs, mutably, refcell, ref, cell, e0502, borrow_mut, e0499, modify, mutation, content
Object Orientation trait, implement, generic, method, implementing, object, implemented, inheritance,
implementation, oop, composition, box, oo, boxed, object_oriented, polymorphism,
partialord, ord, equality, delegate
Operators and
symbols
function, type, const, array, expression, operator, constant, literal, signature, expected,
i32, returning, mismatched, e0308, syntax, declare, opaque, expects, overloading,
overload
Ownership reference, borrow, mutable, ownership, value, owned, borrowing, pointer, moved, heap,
copy, closure, stack, drop, borrowed, forget, clone, allocated, moving, owns
Patterns and
Matchings
match, ok, err, let, pattern_matching, pattern_match, str, parse, matching, false,
errorkind, from_str, eprintln, arm, msg, as_str, unreachable, matched, branch, parsing
Traits trait, implement_trait, associated_type, trait_implementation, e0277, supertrait,
satisfied, dyn, marker, subtrait, dispatch, impls, blanket, mytrait, e0599, unsized, vtable,
e0119, implementors, default_type_parameter
Unsafe Rust unsafe, safe, transmute, raw_pointer, unsafety, from_raw_parts_mut, ptr,
memory_unsafety, mem, assume_init, soundly, as_ptr, safety, raw, undefined,
as_mut_ptr, ub, repr, c_char, from_raw_parts
Async future, async, tokio, mio, await, async_std, stream, poll, executor, map_err, ready,
asynchronous, and_then, block_on, pin, reactor, fut, streamext, tokio_core, polled
Audio think, thing, make, really, ha, like, good, time, sure, need, audio, know, bit, point, way,
probably, better, look, used, problem
Command line
arguments parsing
clap, subcommand, structopt, subcommands, from_os_str, argmatches, rdi, rax, mov,
appsettings, rsi, rsp, eax, required_unless, rcx, rdx, load_yaml, retq, movq, ret
Command line
interface
terminal, command_line, target, file, linux, run, command, running, ansi, bin, window,
directory, linker, path, program, exit, failed, link, linking, script
(Continued)
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 40 =====
43:40 F. R. Cogo et al.
Table C.1. Continued
Topic
(associated KU)
Word types
Concurrency thread, spawn, channel, mutex, std_sync, blocking, std_thread, task, threaded, process,
concurrent, rayon, spawning, concurrently, concurrency, multithreaded, deadlock,
mutexes, producer, send
Database database, db, postgres, driver, sql, mysql, sqlite, postgresql, mongodb, sqlx, orm,
elasticsearch, query, table, conn, id, schema, select, queryable, row
Embedded
development
embedded, embed, interrupt, performance, faster, optimization, stm32, microcontroller,
qemu, fast, usb, cpu, number, size, speed, slower, large, slow, small, firmware
Formatted print println, print, format, main, to_string, output, printing, printed, formatting, push_str,
formatted, num, formatting_trait, format_print, gen_range, format_trait, letter, printer,
02x, uncomment
Game development game, rendering, physic, ggez, windowing, game_engine, draw, image, width, height,
render, graphic, pixel, texture, opengl, gaming, roguelike, color, player, screen
Logging log, logging, env_logger, levelfilter, log4rs, set_logger, syslog, simple_logger,
loglevelfilter, setloggererror, fern, logger, console, appenders, production, rust_log,
essential, pipeline, infrastructure, rolling
Network
development
server, network, tcp, ip, openssl, std_net, udp, certificate, encryption, connection,
socket, dns, tcpstream, ftp, net, bind, telnet, connect, smtp, tcplistener
Web development http, server, web, html, hyper, actix, reqwest, diesel, rocket, actix_web, webassembly,
http_request, request, cookie, client, cs, com, response, org, lang
D EXTRACTED QUOTES
In the following, we highlight the selected quotes from the three sources of information that we
qualitatively analyzed to validate our results (see Table7 in Section5.2).
Structs:
[Q1]“Define‘anonymousstruct’beforeusingitinsection6.1(...)Icannotfindadefinitioninsections
5 to 5.3, which introduce structs. I suggest either adding an explanation of anonymous structs to one
of the structs sections (...) ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/book/issues/2584
[Q2]“(...)examplewithStructUpdateSyntaxistoosurfacelevelandneedsmoreindepthexplanation
(esp for new rustaceans). There’s actually a lot more going on in the Struct Update Syntax example
that’s not explicitly explained or mentioned. ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/book/issues/2789
[Q3] “Struct update syntax example doesn’t make it clear that order doesn’t matter ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/book/issues/1996
[Q4] “Ambiguity regarding the possibility to use struct after move (...) Suggested fix: Rewrite the
paragraph describing the possibility to use the whole struct after its field has been moved. ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/book/issues/2988
[Q5] “I found the Listings on this section a bit confusing to follow because it is unclear on which
scope the struct is being defined. (...) Suggested fix: A small sentence explaining in which scope the
struct definition should go (...) ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/book/issues/2830
[Q6] “The current page (...) doesn’t really say much about unit structs. I think it could use some
clarification. ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/reference/issues/1097
[Q7]“Pageonstructsimpliesthatunitstructdefinitionisthesameasstructstructdefinition+named
constant ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/reference/issues/971
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 41 =====
Assessing the Alignment between the Information Needs of Developers 43:41
Patterns and Matchings:
[Q8] “There is currently a section on destructuring pattern matching in Chapter 18.3. Would it be
worth adding a paragraph, or a few sentences, mentioning destructuring assignment? ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/book/issues/2956
[Q9] “Matchguardexamplemakesanincorrectstatement(...)Suggestedfix:Changetheexampleto
even/odd, so it’s truly an example of something that can’t be checked using a pattern. ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/book/issues/2868
[Q10]“(...)alotofemphasisisputinthefactthatthecompilerchecksifmatcharmsareexhaustive
at compile time (...) What I think should also be mentioned is that it’s not possible for the compiler to
check if arms that contain expressions and conditionals are exhaustive or not (...) Suggested fix: Add
an explanation of how exhaustive checking work with conditionals. ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/book/issues/2925
[Q11] “Reference destructuring is mentioned but not taught (...) So what’s the ‘bug’ in the book?
I guess it should either say that reference destructuring is an advanced topic that isn’t given as an
example, or there should be examples for it? ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/book/issues/2733
[Q12] “Add migration details to or-patterns guide (...) ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/edition-guide/pull/252
Linters:
[Q13] “Document lint control scoping (...) the docs should be explicit how this scoping works (it’s
fairly unusual attribute behavior). ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/reference/issues/574
[Q14] “Most of the 2021 lints are pretty obscure or complicated, and I think readers will get the gist
of what it is saying. ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/edition-guide/pull/255
[Q15] “Add rustdoc to tool lints ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/reference/pull/997
[Q16] “Update lint level documentation (...) This adds some clarification about some details of lint
level behavior. ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/reference/pull/998
[Q17] “Describe the difference ofrustc_lint vs rustc_lint_defs.”
https://github.com/rust-lang/rustc-dev-guide/pull/1131
[Q18]“Updateinformationonlints(...)Clarifysomeinformationaroundsourcesoflints(...)Update
information on future-incompatible lints (...) ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/rustc-dev-guide/pull/1154
[Q19] “Document how lints are actually emitted (...) The section on linting describes how to declare
a lint and how lint passes are constructed, but we are still missing an explanation on how the lint
system takes buffered lints and decides whether to actually emit them to users. ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/rustc-dev-guide/issues/1168
Build:
[Q20] “(...) the documentation, to which obvious effort has been devoted, is just not nearly good
enough.Forexample,itisjustaboutimpossibletofindhowtogetCargotolinkagivennativelibrary
at a certain location. In other words, how to control the generated ld -l and -L options. ”
https://users.rust-lang.org/t/a-year-in-rust-and-i-still-cant-read-the-docs/46872
[Q21] “Mention cargo test -- --include-ignored in test chapter (...) I was disappointed that
the book didn’t mention a way to runalltests, not just theignored.”
https://github.com/rust-lang/book/pull/2958
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 42 =====
43:42 F. R. Cogo et al.
[Q22] “Reflect the addition of the-p flag in Cargo 1.56 (...) ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/book/pull/3051
[Q23] “The ‘Getting Started’ chapter is, TBH, pretty bad when it comes to the stuff about building
and testing. ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/rustc-dev-guide/pull/1286
[Q24] “– Add chapter on libs and metadata (...) This leans a bit heavy from a Cargo/build-tools
perspective,butIthinkthisinformationisuseful.–I’vewantedtoseeinfoaboutmetadataandrustlibs
in the dev-guide for a while, so thank you! – This is super helpful, thank you! ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/rustc-dev-guide/pull/1044
[Q25] “(...) support for publishing a package from a Cargo workspace was added to thecargo
publish command. The book however still mentioned that it wasn’t possible to publish a package
unless you were navigated into the respective package and published from there. ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/book/pull/3051
[Q26] “Add cargo new learning to recap in ch01-03-hello-cargo.md. Althoughcargo new was
explained in the previous subsection, it is altogether a very detailed section and it is good to include
thisforcompletenessandtoremindthereaderhowtocreateaproject,withoutthemhavingtogoback.
”
https://github.com/rust-lang/book/pull/3067
[Q27] “Add [env] section to Cargo Reference - Configuration (...) This information is missing in the
Cargo Reference/Configuration section. ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/book/issues/2665
[Q28] “(...) as of Cargo 1.53 the author field is no longer added to the Cargo.toml (...) I just spent a
day as a beginner reading the Cargo book and searching the web for ways to get it populated to my
liking and eventually found a note to the above effect on Stack Overflow. ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/book/issues/2795
Foreign Function Interface:
[Q29] “– (...) on 2018-edition book, I couldn’t find any info about FFI (...) – There’s no fantastic FFI
documentation provided by the project right now. ”
https://users.rust-lang.org/t/where-can-i-get-the-latest-official-ffi-documents/21982
[Q30] “linkage.md: update link to FFI section of the Book. ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/reference/pull/917
[Q31] “Write a basic ‘call Rust from C’ example (...) this chapter seems to be getting quite long. At
some point it might be worthwhile to consider breaking it up. ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/nomicon/pull/296
[Q32] “ffi: explicitly declarehello_from_rustfor C99 ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/nomicon/pull/343
[Q33] “On the FFI page, the Rust signatures of the functions snappy_compress, snappy_
uncompress, snappy_uncompressed_lengthand snappy_validate_compressed_bufferarede-
claredasreturning c_int(...)GiventhatCdoesnotguaranteethatanenum’sunderlyingtypeis int,
shouldn’t the return type on the Rust side be an enum declared with#[repr(C)]?”
https://github.com/rust-lang/nomicon/issues/258
[Q34] “Include brief explainer of C patterns and idioms in the FFI section (...) Ideally, the Nomicon
should be enough to teach you everything you need to know about authoring an FFI API in Rust,
without you needing to learn C to the level of knowing the idioms. (...) Right now the FFI chapter tells
you how to link to another library, but not really how to write your own. ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/nomicon/issues/300
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 43 =====
Assessing the Alignment between the Information Needs of Developers 43:43
Macros:
[Q35] “Where is the official documentation (up-to-date version) on writing procedural macros? (...)
the chapter about the macros is missing and the reference says it is very incomplete. ”
https://users.rust-lang.org/t/official-documentation-for-writing-procedural-macros/24954
[Q36] “I didn’t find any documentation in the book that stated that theproc-macro = true
statement should be inside the [lib] section. ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/book/pull/2915
[Q37]“Ifindthe‘new’waytowritethosemacroswiththedeclarationintheCargo.tomlblendsinwell
withtheimportofmacrocrates.(...)PleaseupdatetheBooktoreflectthosechangesandrequirements.
”
https://github.com/rust-lang/book/issues/2579
[Q38] “There are no examples of how to do repetition on the page ‘Macros By Example.’ Including a
simple example of e.g. how thevec!macro uses repetition would increase clarity. As someone who is
not familiar withmacro_rules!, I find the section on repetition very difficult to follow. ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/reference/issues/1123
[Q39] “Improve the documentation of macros-by-example metavariable names (...) Metavariable
names are not necessarily identifiers: they may also be keywords, raw identifiers or _. ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/reference/pull/1130
[Q40] “ident macro fragment should include raw keywords. The ident fragment is currently
documented as matching IDENTIFIER_OR_KEYWORD. However, I think it should also includeRAW_
IDENTIFIER.”
https://github.com/rust-lang/reference/issues/610
[Q41] “Document compatibility between declarative and procedural macro tokens. ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/reference/pull/1169
[Q42] “Standardize reference of ‘Attribute Macro’ (...) The Attributes section uses ‘macro attributes’
but links to a section calling them ‘attribute macros.’ ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/reference/pull/958
[Q43] “added macro_rules to weak keywords. ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/reference/pull/1008
[Q44] “The description of ‘procedural macros’ was never updated when function-like procedural
macros were stabilized. ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/reference/pull/1048
[Q45] “(...) Add more detail on procedural macros and custom derive. The section on procedural
macros is lacking (especially with regards to custom derive). This should be fleshed out more. ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/rustc-dev-guide/issues/1165
[Q46] “(...) it needs to be mentioned that an attribute macro replaces the ‘thing’ they annotate (lost
a ton of time in this yesterday). ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/book/issues/2267
[Q47] “Proposal to change example for proc_macros (...) I think we should do this example the other
way around. ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/book/issues/1639
[Q48]“v1.58introducescapturedidentifiersinformatstrings,andyetitseemsmostoftheexamples
in the book still use positional placeholders. ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/book/issues/3047
Network Development:
[Q49]“IwouldliketowriteasimpleserverwithhyperthatcansupportHTTPS(...)butdocumentation
is Unclear. ”
https://users.rust-lang.org/t/unclear-documentation-in-hyper-openssl-0-5-0-for-server/17491
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 44 =====
43:44 F. R. Cogo et al.
Installation and Setup:
[Q50] “Chapter 1.1 - no mention of runningrustup toolchain install stable (...) I believe it
would be worth at least mentioning it in the book, even if it’s not the recommended option. ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/book/issues/2901
[Q51] “I think it would also make sense to include a note about how to getrustup link to use a
cargo compiled with./x.py build cargo , but I haven’t yet figured out how to do that. ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/rustc-dev-guide/pull/1273
File I/O:
[Q52] “I’m reading about:std::io::BufReader and as a first example I see:reader.read_line
(&mut line)?;.ThenIamtryingtofindthatfunctionread_lineattheleftofthedocumentation,but
it is not listed there!!! ”
https://users.rust-lang.org/t/documentation-of-types-discoverability-problem/53274
[Q53] “(...) today I spent time onstd::io::BufReaderdocumentation (...) but I do not understand
the following point (...) Does thestd::io::BufReader<R> documentation states that I should not
use aBufReader?”
https://users.rust-lang.org/t/bufreader-documentation-precision/37903
Advanced Functions and Closures:
[Q54] “Chapter 13.1 Mention why we put parenthesis aroundself.calculation when calling
(self.calculation)(arg)(...)Suggestedfix:Putaparagraphoranasidebeforethenextcodelisting
that mentions that (...) we are trying to invoke the closure stored in the field. ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/book/issues/2985
[Q55]“19.4Cannotusefunctionpointerasreturntype(...)Suggestedfix:Rephrasedescriptionorget
rid of the function pointer mention altogether. ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/book/issues/3055
[Q56] “19.1 has an unsound example and does not explain it (...) Suggested fix: Either mention that
it is unsound and this code should not be copied in prose, or change the example. ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/book/issues/3013
[Q57] “Provide more information about disjoint capture in closures and migration instructions. ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/edition-guide/issues/241
[Q58]“Chapter19.4:implvsboxdyn(...)Thissectionshowsacompilererrorsuggestingusing impl,
then(withoutcomment)givesadifferentsolutionusing Box<dyn>(...)Eitheruse impl(asthecompiler
suggests) or comment on the difference between the solutions. ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/book/issues/2872
[Q59]“ch19-05:Enhance Returning Closures section(...)ThisPRenhances Returning Closures
section from ch19-05. It mentions theimpl Trait syntax for returning closures from functions, as
another way except Trait objects. ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/book/pull/2725
[Q60] “Clarify the HRTB chapter (...) Recently, someone asked for some clarifications in the _easy
questions_ thread on the unofficial Rust subreddit regarding the HRTB chapter (...) ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/nomicon/pull/330
[Q61]“ConsolidateHKTBs(...)There’sgreatinformationaboutalltheseconcepts(...)Wouldbegreat
to review them and add stuff into the guide. ”
https://github.com/rust-lang/rustc-dev-guide/issues/1184
Database Development:
[Q62]“Thedieselprojectislookingforfeedbackandadditionalinputontheirdocumentationforthe
upcoming 2.0 release. ”
https://users.rust-lang.org/t/a-year-in-rust-and-i-still-cant-read-the-docs/46872
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 45 =====
Assessing the Alignment between the Information Needs of Developers 43:45
[Q63] “I’d love to see some ‘database book’ that covers connections, drivers, pools, has examples for
every feature and gives overview of ecosystem. Individual project would benefit greatly from better
docs. ”
https://internals.rust-lang.org/t/kickstarting-a-database-wg/9696/5
REFERENCES
[1] 2007. The Java SE Documentation Survey. Retrieved fromhttps://blogs.oracle.com/thejavatutorials/the-java-se-
documentation-survey.
[2] 2018. Where is “use crate:” documented? Retrieved fromhttps://users.rust-lang.org/t/20910.
[3] 2019. Documentation (eg. of “-> !”). Retrieved fromhttps://users.rust-lang.org/t/35764.
[4] 2020. Go Developer Survey 2020 Results. Retrieved fromhttps://blog.golang.org/survey2020-results#TOC_9.
[5] 2020.Kickstartingadatabase-wg.Retrievedfrom https://internals.rust-lang.org/t/kickstarting-a-database-wg/9696/
5/.
[6] 2020. Python Developers Survey 2020 Results. Retrieved fromhttps://www.jetbrains.com/lp/python-developers-
survey-2020/.
[7] 2020. Rust 2020 Survey Results. Retrieved fromhttps://blog.rust-lang.org/2020/12/16/rust-survey-2020.html.
[8] 2020. Rust Game Development - Ecosystem Survey. Retrieved fromhttps://gamedev.rs/blog/survey-01/.
[9] 2020. Rust Survey 2019 reveals the need for more documentation. Retrieved fromhttps://jaxenter.com/rust-survey-
2019-171246.html.
[10] 2020. Stack Overflow Developer Survey 2020. Retrieved fromhttps://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2020.
[11] 2020. User & Developer Survey 2020. Retrieved fromhttps://julialang.org/assets/2020-julia-user-developer-survey.
pdf.
[12] 2021. Anchored CorEx. Retrieved fromhttps://github.com/gregversteeg/corex_topic/.
[13] 2021. The Cargo Book. Retrieved fromhttps://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/.
[14] 2021. Discourse. Retrieved fromhttps://www.discourse.org/.
[15] 2021. Discourse API Documentation. Retrieved fromhttps://docs.discourse.org/.
[16] 2021. The Edition Guide. Retrieved fromhttps://doc.rust-lang.org/edition-guide/.
[17] 2021. The Embedded Rust Book. Retrieved fromhttps://docs.rust-embedded.org/book/.
[18] 2021. Results of the First Kotlin Multiplatform Survey. Retrieved fromhttps://blog.jetbrains.com/kotlin/2021/01/
results-of-the-first-kotlin-multiplatform-survey/ .
[19] 2021. Rust by example. Retrieved fromhttps://doc.rust-lang.org/rust-by-example/.
[20] 2021. The Rust core allocation and collections library. Retrieved fromhttps://doc.rust-lang.org/alloc/.
[21] 2021. The Rust Core Library. Retrieved fromhttps://doc.rust-lang.org/core/.
[22] 2021. Rust official learning material. Retrieved fromhttps://www.rust-lang.org/learn.
[23] 2021. The Rust Programming Language. Retrieved fromhttps://doc.rust-lang.org/book/.
[24] 2021. The Rust Reference. Retrieved fromhttps://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/reference/.
[25] 2021. The Rust Standard Library. Retrieved fromhttps://doc.rust-lang.org/std/.
[26] 2021. The rustc Book. Retrieved fromhttps://doc.rust-lang.org/rustc/.
[27] 2021. The rustdoc Book. Retrieved fromhttps://doc.rust-lang.org/rustdoc/.
[28] 2021. The Rustonomicon. Retrieved fromhttps://doc.rust-lang.org/nomicon/.
[29] 2021. Stack Exchange Data Explorer. Retrieved fromhttps://data.stackexchange.com/.
[30] 2021. Supplementary material. Retrieved from https://www.dropbox.com/sh/bkeewtymjnf9yp6/AAAstyl4-
r2FZCfWkzkBoyyma?dl=0.
[31] 2022. Annual Rust Survey design. Retrieved fromhttps://github.com/rust-lang/surveys/blob/main/surveys/notes/
design.md.
[32] 2022. Annual Rust Survey questions. Retrieved fromhttps://github.com/rust-lang/surveys/blob/main/surveys/2021-
annual-survey/questions.md.
[33] 2022. Discussion to kickstart the Rust Survey for 2020. Retrieved fromhttps://github.com/rust-lang/core-team/
issues/7#issuecomment-663220142.
[34] 2022. Documentation on the Survey Platform. Retrieved from https://github.com/rust-lang/surveys/blob/main/
surveys/notes/survey-platforms.md.
[35] 2022. Ensure stakeholders have been consulted about the 2021 Survey Design. Retrieved fromhttps://github.com/
rust-lang/surveys/issues/3.
[36] 2022.Gettingtoawiderfeedbackround(AnnualRustSurvey).Retrievedfrom https://github.com/rust-lang/surveys/
issues/63.
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 46 =====
43:46 F. R. Cogo et al.
[37] 2022. How can I convert it back into bson::document::Document on the server side? Retrieved fromhttps://
stackoverflow.com/questions/63074618.
[38] 2022. How to import all macros, derives, and procedural macros in Rust 2018 without using extern crate? Retrieved
fromhttps://users.rust-lang.org/t/33225.
[39] 2022.InterceptinglibcreadlinkwithaRUSTLD_PRELOADprogramhangswhenapplyingtocargobuild.Retrieved
fromhttps://users.rust-lang.org/t/48057.
[40] 2022. Is there an idiomatic way to implement the component pattern? Retrieved fromhttps://stackoverflow.com/
questions/31897986.
[41] 2022. Log4rs - how to use different levels for appenders. Retrieved fromhttps://stackoverflow.com/questions/
50999749.
[42] 2022. Rust Annual Survey Repository. Retrieved fromhttps://github.com/rust-lang/surveys.
[43] 2022. Rust Annual Survey Tentative Timeline. Retrieved from https://github.com/rust-lang/surveys/tree/main/
surveys/2021-annual-survey.
[44] Ahmad Abdellatif, Diego Costa, Khaled Badran, Rabe Abdalkareem, and Emad Shihab. 2020. Challenges in chatbot
development:AstudyofStackOverflowposts.In Proceedingsofthe17thInternationalConferenceonMiningSoftware
Repositories. 174–185.
[45] Syed Ahmed and Mehdi Bagherzadeh. 2018. What do concurrency developers ask about? A large-scale study using
StackOverflow.In Proceedingsofthe12thACM/IEEEInternationalSymposiumonEmpiricalSoftwareEngineeringand
Measurement. 1–10.
[46] Anwar Alqaimi,PatanamonThongtanunam,and Christoph Treude.2019.Automaticallygeneratingdocumentation
for Lambda expressions in Java. InProceedings of the IEEE/ACM 16th International Conference on Mining Software
Repositories. 310–320.
[47] Moayad Alshangiti, Hitesh Sapkota, Pradeep K. Murukannaiah, Xumin Liu, and Qi Yu. 2019. Why is developing
machine learning applications challenging? A study on Stack Overflow posts. InProceedings of the 12th ACM/IEEE
International Symposium on Empirical Software Engineering and Measurement. 1–11.
[48] Mohab Aly, Foutse Khomh, and Soumaya Yacout. 2021. What do practitioners discuss about IoT and industry 4.0
related technologies? Characterization and identification of IoT and Industry 4.0 categories in Stack Overflow dis-
cussions. Internet Things14 (2021), 100364.
[49] DavidAndrzejewski,XiaojinZhu,andMarkCraven.2009.Incorporatingdomainknowledgeintotopicmodelingvia
Dirichlet forest priors. InProceedings of the 26th Annual International Conference on Machine Learning. 25–32.
[50] Richard A. Armstrong. 2014. When to use the Bonferroni correction.Ophthalm. Physiolog. Optics34, 5 (2014), 502–
508.
[51] S. Arora, R. Ge, and A. Moitra. 2012. Learning topic models—going beyond SVD. InProceedings of the IEEE 54th
Annual Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science. 1–10.
[52] MehdiBagherzadehandRaffiKhatchadourian.2019.Goingbig:Alarge-scalestudyonwhatbigdatadevelopersask.
In Proceedings of the ACM 27th Joint Meeting on European Software Engineering Conference and Symposium on the
Foundations of Software Engineering. 432–442.
[53] AbdulAliBangash,HareemSahar,ShaifulChowdhury,AlexanderWilliamWong,AbramHindle,andKarimAli.2019.
What do developers know about machine learning: A study of ML discussions on Stack Overflow. InProceedings of
the IEEE/ACM 16th International Conference on Mining Software Repositories. 260–264.
[54] Anton Barua, Stephen W. Thomas, and Ahmed E. Hassan. 2014. What are developers talking about? An analysis of
topics and trends in Stack Overflow.Empir. Softw. Eng.19 (2014), 619–654.
[55] David M. Blei and John D. Lafferty. 2006. Dynamic topic models. InProceedings of the 23rd International Conference
on Machine Learning (ICML’06). 113–120.
[56] RaymondP.L.BuseandWestleyR.Weimer.2008.Automaticdocumentationinferenceforexceptions.In Proceedings
of the International Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis. 273–282.
[57] Partha Chakraborty, Rifat Shahriyar, Anindya Iqbal, and Gias Uddin. 2021. How do developers discuss and support
new programming languages in technical Q&A site? An empirical study of Go, Swift, and Rust in Stack Overflow.
Inf. Softw. Technol.137 (2021), 106603.
[58] Chunyang Chen and Zhenchang Xing. 2016. Towards correlating search on Google and asking on Stack Overflow.
83–92.
[59] Zhenpeng Chen, Yanbin Cao, Yuanqiang Liu, Haoyu Wang, and Xuanzhe Liu. 2020. A comprehensive study on
challenges in deploying deep learning based software. InProceedings of the 28th ACM Joint Meeting on European
Software Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering. 750–762.
[60] Norman Cliff. 1996.Ordinal Methods for Behavioral Data Analysis. Psychology Press, New York.
[61] DanielaSoares Cruzes andToreDybå.2011.Recommendedstepsforthematicsynthesis insoftwareengineering.In
Proceedings of the International Symposium on Empirical Software Engineering and Measurement. 275–284.
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 47 =====
Assessing the Alignment between the Information Needs of Developers 43:47
[62] Uri Dekel and James D. Herbsleb. 2009. Reading the documentation of invoked API functions in program compre-
hension. InProceedings of the IEEE 17th International Conference on Program Comprehension. 168–177.
[63] Ying Fang, Heyan Huang, Ping Jian, Xin Xin, and Chong Feng. 2014. Self-adaptive topic model: A solution to the
problem of “rich topics get richer.”China Commun.11, 12 (2014), 35–43.
[64] RyanGallagher,KyleReing,DavidKale,andGregVerSteeg.2017.Anchoredcorrelationexplanation:Topicmodeling
with minimal domain knowledge.Trans. Assoc. Computat. Ling.5, 0 (2017), 529–542.
[65] Aria Haghighi and Dan Klein. 2006. Prototype-driven learning for sequence models. InProceedings of the Human
Language Technology Conference of the NAACL. 320–327.
[66] JunxiaoHan,EmadShihab,ZhiyuanWan,ShuiguangDeng,andXinXia.2020.Whatdoprogrammersdiscussabout
deep learning frameworks.Empir. Softw. Eng.25 (2020), 2694–2747.
[67] Abram Hindle, Christian Bird, Thomas Zimmermann, and Nachiappan Nagappan. 2012. Relating requirements to
implementationvia topic analysis: Do topics extracted from requirements make sense to managers and developers?
InProceedings of the 28th IEEE International Conference on Software Maintenance. 243–252.
[68] Xing Hu, Ge Li, Xin Xia, David Lo, and Zhi Jin. 2018. Deep code comment generation. InProceedings of the 26th
Conference on Program Comprehension. 200–210.
[69] Mira Kajko-Mattsson. 2005. A survey of documentation practice within corrective maintenance.Empir. Softw. Eng.
20 (2005), 31–55.
[70] Andrew J. Ko, RobertDeLine,and GinaVenolia. 2007.Information needs in collocated software developmentteams.
InProceedings of the 29th International Conference on Software Engineering. 344–353.
[71] AndrewJ.Ko,BradA.Myers,MichaelJ.Coblenz,andHtetHtetAung.2006.Anexploratorystudyofhowdevelopers
seek,relate,andcollectrelevantinformationduringsoftwaremaintenancetasks. IEEETrans.Softw.Eng. 32,12(2006),
971–987.
[72] L. I. Kuncheva and J. C. Bezdek. 1998. Nearest prototype classification: Clustering, genetic algorithms, or random
search? IEEE Trans. Syst. Man Cybern. Part C (Applic. Rev.)28, 1 (1998), 160–164.DOI:https://doi.org/10.1109/5326.
661099
[73] T. C. Lethbridge, J. Singer, and A. Forward. 2003. How software engineers use documentation: The state of the
practice.IEEE Softw.20, 6 (2003), 35–39.DOI:https://doi.org/10.1109/MS.2003.1241364
[74] Mario Linares-Vásquez, Bogdan Dit, and Denys Poshyvanyk. 2013. An exploratory analysis of mobile development
issues using Stack Overflow. InProceedings of the 10th Working Conference on Mining Software Repositories. 93–96.
[75] PaulW.McBurney,SiyuanJiang,MarouaneKessentini,NicholasA.Kraft,AmeerArmaly,MohamedWiemMkaouer,
and Collin McMillan. 2018. Towards prioritizing documentation effort.IEEE Trans. Softw. Eng.44, 9 (2018), 897–913.
[76] PaulW.McBurneyandCollinMcMillan.2014.Automaticdocumentationgenerationviasourcecodesummarization
of method context. InProceedings of the 22nd International Conference on Program Comprehension. 279–290.
[77] Laura Moreno, Jairo Aponte, Giriprasad Sridhara, Andrian Marcus, Lori Pollock, and K. Vijay-Shanker. 2013. Auto-
matic generation of natural language summaries for Java classes. InProceedings of the 21st International Conference
on Program Comprehension. 23–32.
[78] Michael Moser, Josef Pichler, Günther Fleck, and Michael Witlatschil. 2015. RbG: A documentation generator for
scientific and engineering software. InProceedings of the IEEE 22nd International Conference on Software Analysis,
Evolution, and Reengineering. 464–468.
[79] Allen Newell. 1963. Documentation of IPL-V.Commun. ACM6, 3 (1963), 86–89.
[80] AkondRahman,AsifPartho,PatrickMorrison,andLaurieWilliams.2018.Whatquestionsdoprogrammersaskabout
configuration as code? InProceedings of the IEEE/ACM 4th International Workshop on Rapid Continuous Software
Engineering. 16–22.
[81] Louis M. Rea and Richard A. Parker. 2014.Designing and Conducting Survey Research: A Comprehensive Guide(4th
ed.). Jossey-Bass.
[82] MartinP.Robillard,AndrianMarcus,ChristophTreude,GabrieleBavota,OscarChaparro,NeilErnst,MarcoAurélio
Gerosa, Michael Godfrey, Michele Lanza, Mario Linares-Vásquez, Gail C. Murphy, Laura Moreno, David Shepherd,
and Edmund Wong. 2017. On-demand developer documentation. InProceedings of the IEEE International Conference
on Software Maintenance and Evolution (ICSME). 479–483.
[83] Michael Röder, Andreas Both, and Alexander Hinneburg. 2015. Exploring the space of topic coherence measures. In
Proceedings of the 8th ACM International Conference on Web Search and Data Mining. 399–408.
[84] J.Romano,J.D.Kromrey,J.Coraggio,andJ.Skowronek.2006.Appropriatestatisticsforordinalleveldata:Shouldwe
really beusing t-test and Cohen’sd for evaluating group differences on the NSSE and other surveys? InProceedings
of the Annual Meeting of the Florida Association of Institutional Research.1 – 3 .
[85] ChristofferRosenandEmadShihab.2016.Whataremobiledevelopersaskingabout?AlargescalestudyusingStack
Overflow.Empir. Softw. Eng.21 (2016), 1192–1223.
[86] Christopher J. Shaw. 1963. Jovial and its documentation.Commun. ACM6, 3 (1963), 89–91.
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.

===== Page 48 =====
43:48 F. R. Cogo et al.
[87] Lucas B. L. Souza, Eduardo C. Campos, Fernanda Madeiral, Klerisson Paixao, Adriano M. Rocha, and Marcelo de
AlmeidaMaia.2019.BootstrappingcookbooksforAPIsfromcrowdknowledgeonStackOverflow. Inf.Softw.Technol.
111 (2019), 37–49.
[88] Greg Ver Steeg and Aram Galstyan. 2014. Discovering structure in high-dimensional data through correlation ex-
planation. InProceedings of the 27th International Conference on Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems.
577–585.
[89] Florian Steuber,Mirco Schoenfeld, and GabiDreo Rodosek. 2020.Topic modelingof short texts using anchor words.
In Proceedings of the 10th International Conference on Web Intelligence, Mining and Semantics. 210–219.
[90] E. Burton Swanson. 1976. The dimensions of maintenance. InProceedings of the IEEE/ACM 2nd International Confer-
ence on Software Engineering. 492–497.
[91] ChristophTreude,OhadBarzilay,andMargaret-AnneStorey.2011.Howdoprogrammersaskandanswerquestions
on the web? InProceedings of the IEEE/ACM 33rd International Conference on Software Engineering. 804–807.
[92] Christoph Treude, Martin P. Robillard, and Barthélémy Dagenais. 2015. Extracting development tasks to navigate
softwaredocumentation. IEEETrans.Softw.Eng. 41,6(2015),565–581. DOI:https://doi.org/10.1109/TSE.2014.2387172
[93] PradeepK.Venkatesh,ShaohuaWang,FengZhang,YingZou,andAhmedE.Hassan.2016.Whatdoclientdevelopers
concern when using web APIs? An empirical study on developer forums and Stack Overflow. InProceedings of the
IEEE International Conference on Web Services. 131–138.
[94] ZhiyuanWan,XinXia,andAhmedE.Hassan.2019.Whatisdiscussedaboutblockchain?Acasestudyontheuseof
balanced LDA and the reference architecture of a domain to capture online discussions about blockchain platforms
across the stack exchange communities.IEEE Trans. Softw. Eng.(2019), 1–19.
[95] ShaoweiWang,DavidLo,andLingxiaoJiang.2013.AnempiricalstudyondeveloperinteractionsinStackOverflow.
In Proceedings of the 28th Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing. 1019–1024.
[96] David Weltman and Mark Eakin. 2018. Basic guidelines for common business statistics metrics.Bus. Educ. Innov. J.
10, 2 (2018), 21–26.
[97] YuhaoWu,ShaoweiWang,Cor-PaulBezemer,andKatsuroInoue.2019.Howdodevelopersutilizesourcecodefrom
Stack Overflow?Empir. Softw. Eng.24, 2 (2019), 637–673.
[98] Xin-LiYang,DavidLo,XinXia,Zhi-YuanWan,andJian-LingSun.2016.Whatsecurityquestionsdodevelopersask?
A large-scale study of Stack Overflow posts.J. Comput. Sci. Technol.31 (2016), 910–924.
[99] VictorH.YngveandJeanE.Sammet.1963.Towardbetterdocumentationofprogramminglanguages. Commun.ACM
6, 3 (1963), 76.
[100] JuanZhai,JianjunHuang,ShiqingMa,XiangyuZhang,LinTan,JianhuaZhao,andFengQin.2016.Automaticmodel
generationfromdocumentationforJavaAPIfunctions.In ProceedingsoftheIEEE/ACM38thInternationalConference
on Software Engineering. 380–391.
Received 27 October 2021; revised 8 May 2022; accepted 11 June 2022
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 32, No. 2, Article 43. Pub. date: March 2023.